Brad Ebenhoeh

What is a social interaction? A social interaction is an interrelation that involves two or more people and is a cornerstone of humanity. A speech community is a common type of social interaction. Each speech community is different from the next in everybody else eyes. This question dealt with the concept of social interactions, social practices, and speech communities. In particular, we were told to closely look at the social networks, high or low density, multiplexity or uniplexity, and our communities in practice. Lastly, we were told to consider how our experience here is different from our home environments. 
Here in Ann Arbor, I am afforded all the opportunities of a world traveler as a student of the university. Back at home in Roseville, Michigan, I am involved with fewer communities. In Michigan and in other places, most people congregate near the homes of relatives and friends. I am ashamed to admit it, but I am much more closed off than I would like. I feel privileged to be living in a diverse community such as Ann Arbor. I am amazed at the different people that populate Ann Arbor because I come from a predominantly Caucasian hometown.  
People are more comfortable hanging with those they are affiliated with and know very well. The relative low density of our social network or speech community is quite appalling. I found that to be the case in my hometown. Other people live in a much more open world like Ann Arbor or the large cities (New York, Chicago, Atlanta, Los Angeles,
etc). Progressivity generally resides in a higher density social network or speech community compared with my living situation. 
I consider all the communities in Ann Arbor speech communities because they communicate in an inherently different manner. Ann Arbor has speech communities that are very multiplex. Multiplex networks are ones in which different sets of people interact with different social spheres. Comparatively, a uniplex system is one in which the same people in different social arenas engage with each other. The reason why I chose multiplex is because Ann Arbor has such a diverse background. The multiplexity of Ann Arbor is so much higher than back home in Roseville, it is astounding. Ann Arbor also has a high density social network, everybody knows each other. Whereas, Roseville is a  lower density social network and there are few social interactions between different people.
All of the communities back home are not speech communities because they all speak the same language. At home, the different social networks are much lower in abundance than in Ann Arbor. The relative low frequencies are extremely noticeable when compared to the relatively high frequency of Ann Arbor. 
In my experience, the most broadly defined community is the city of Ann Arbor because the residents are from around the world. I consider myself to be very fortunate to live in a city where diverse groups of people live. The most narrowly defined community is the one with just my immediate family who all speak the same language as me. The range from the broadest sense of the word speech community to the most specific use is fascinating to study. In future research, I would like to pursue that subject further. 
My experience at home has been much more closed off than I would have hoped. My journey, although not what I had hoped for, was vital to my existence here today. I would think it would be detrimental to me or anyone to just analyze one part of a person¯s life. Each element of a person¯s life is necessary to take into account when you are looking at their complete life. 
My experience with speech communities is different from everyone else¯s. The vastly different uses of the phrases high density and low density were quite apparent in the different areas in which I live; whereas multiplexity versus uniplexity was less obvious. I have acquired an incredible amount of knowledge from sociolinguistics and I am extremely excited to explore any topic in class in the future. 


1. Can you think of one or several multiplex networks or uniplex networks within your speech community both here and at home?

2. Would you consider the clubs of the different nationalities here at this university each one a distinct speech community?

3. How do our current speech communities differ from ones in the past?



