Brad Ebenhoeh 
Toon-LING 403
10/19/17

Hetero-normativity is "based on the attitude that heterosexuality is the only normal and natural expression of sexuality" ( Merriam Webster). It is the view that gender is binary with two distinct, opposite and complementary genders (male vs. female). Related topics include human biological nature, human sexuality, gender identification, gender roles, gender interaction, and gender expression. Further discussions include the value of this perspective and the values that impel it, the social ideology it embodies, and the social institutions entailed. I will also include all of my findings on hetero-normativity in the book and reflect on those facts. 
The theory that the two genders can be placed in two boxes is one I disagree with as I can think of a plethora of different categories for human sexuality. For example, the terms lesbian, gay, bisexual, straight, or any number of different sexualities can be defined. I believe human sexuality is on a sliding scale not into little boxes.
Heterosexuality is defined as "the tendency to direct sexual desire toward the opposite sex" (Merriam Webster). Hetero-normativity emerges as a result of people recognizing hetero-sexuality as the only socially acceptable sexual identification. The study of hetero-normativity is not complete without the mention of the peculiar adoption of the third person pronoun, "they" instead of "he/she". "They" is certainly less of a mouthful than the previous alternative. I think that this is what appeals to the modern user when they are using their various dialects of English. The present-day speaker of English is far too encumbered to pronounce "he or she" when they (notice the pronoun here) are saying this third person singular. They do not want to be impeded by "he or she". The twenty-first-century English speaker has no time to "waste" with the longer "he and she" than "they". This newfound sense of there not being enough time is a relatively dissimilar idea than from what our forefathers had experienced.
There are two schools of thought when it comes to hetero-normativity in language. The first is that hetero-normativity creates much luggage to be carried around by the average English speaker. The second is that the third person singular is directly caused by the vowel shifts that are running rampant through the country. I believe that the third person singular is caused by the second reason. The vowel shifts are a source from which the third person singular is changing. However, I think it is rapidly becoming apparent that the word "they" is going to be applied to the lexicon of the contemporary representative of the English speaking populace. For example, one of the Great Northern Cities Vowel Shift can be found in the Great Lakes area. In this case, the vowel shift happens to be the /o/ and 'bod' is becoming more like 'bad'.
I digress from our topic of hetero-normativity, though. Human biological nature is another very important facet to our topic-at-hand. Human nature is determined by age. My idea of human nature is starkly different from my parents' concept of human nature. In the past, it was a different world where young people did not receive the same attention that the older generation gives to us. In fact, it can be said that we had a disability until recently. One in which the older generation neglected to care for everyone, having an extremely closed-minded view of the world. The extreme isolationism in U.S. in the 20th Century and even the one  today are exceedingly great examples. I would be remiss if I did not tell you that not everyone had this narrow view of this world. There are people who care for every person on this Earth.
Human sexuality is closely tied to our perceptions of gender roles. Human sexuality is the direct result of our study of hetero-normativity. There is the old versus the new again here. The old viewpoint, which is usually more conservative, still needs to be heard. They are the voice of reason, albeit their voice tends to be more wrong in my eyes. Gender roles play a pivotal role here. The old versus new rises to the top of the situation. I think gender roles are the single biggest unanswered question of present time. What are we to do if they are considered a "he" and a "she" at the same time? 
Gender identification, interaction, and expression are three similar ideas to spin off from hetero-normativity as we are discussing. These three ideas are exceedingly close to what we have discussed earlier. The old versus new again comes to the surface. Gender identification is the newfound problem that arises when we are looking at hetero-normativity. The identification quandary is what are we to do with a person who identifies as both male and female. Check both boxes? "Gender is different from other forms of social inequality in that men and women interact extensively within families and households and in other role relations." (Ridgeway and Smith-Lovin 1999) Gender interaction is this extensive intercommunication between the two genders as we know them to be. Gender expression is the right every human being has to move along this spectrum of non hetero-normativity. These three closely tie in with the previous ideas in my paper with the ideas of the old versus the new.
Further consideration of hetero-normativity comprises the value of this perspective and the values that impel it, the social ideology it embodies, and the social institutions entailed. For example, this idea of hetero-normativity has impelled a certain right wing half of the country right now. Thus, the right wing is empowered in this country, so we are lead to believe that America is socially backward country. I know this not to be true. Many people do not share this mind frame. All of our social institutions are included in speaking about this concept because this is the single largest unanswered question of our time.
The extensive vowel shifts detailed in the book were pertinent to this idea of hetero-normativity. I think that we are involved with a much greater than average vowel shift. The prevalence of the \e\ shifted to the \i\ is truly one to take note of and it is the Great Northern Vowel Shift. Interestingly enough, the Northern Vowel Shift is the one we are hearing a lot about and that the entire country is following. This appears to be saying that the north is more important than everywhere else, but I know that it is not true. I hope to be given more papers about this at a later date. 
We turn back to Linguistics. The current application of the English language allows for the user to be fast. Coming from a slow person, because of my disability, I can say, with some amount of confidence, that this is scary. The English language has become like every other language: fast. However, it allows such moves as the one which involves the shift from "he and she" to "they". With change, it is not all scary. Some change is good; the vowel shifts are not all bad, for example. I think that this was an important step in my process. How vowel shifts help me write this paper by providing the material with which to write this small paper, but also help to advance non-heteronormative language use.





