Brad Ebenhoeh
Linguistics 403
10/03/17

"Weebles wobble but they don't fall down." That was a quote from my mother. I have had very little experience in native English, but I hope to learn it in this class. My dad used to always call us "bums" for whatever reason, which is highly unusual as "a bum" is "a stack of papers." Basically, my two parents are representative of all the experiences I have had until now in Ann Arbor being as they were my primary caregivers growing up.

We were told to reflect on our experiences as a speaker of American English. Where do we acquire English? How do we acquire English? Do we consider English to be our native language? How would we describe our range of spoken and written variety?

From the very beginning, I acquired English as my native tongue. I was born in Southfield, Michigan, where I inherited this relatively low density social network. Around home, I am ashamed to admit, we do not have as many varieties in our speech community as someone would in urban Chicago or Ann Arbor. Other people may have had a much different experience than I did. I know other people might have more variety in their speaking because their family or friends or themselves immigrated from another country. While at school, I have had to marvel at the different speech communities. I was aghast when I first heard people say "soda" instead of "pop". It is "pop," by the way, don't let anyone tell you otherwise.
Michiganders speak words such as "Euchre", "Yoopers", "LP", "UP", "pasty", and "pop". I use this dialect of English native to Southeastern Michigan purely because all of my parents, aunts, uncles, great grandparents, and grandparents spoke this variety of language as well. Up until now, I lived within my own speech community back in Roseville, Michigan. Now I live in Ann Arbor, a much more multiplex network. Back home, people maintain close relations with neighbors and friends and do not really go out of that sphere. While in Ann Arbor, I am afforded the chance to become a world class traveler sitting at home. Consequently, I acquire English via the people surrounding me. One example of new lexicon I picked up while in Ann Arbor, is all of the talk of college football. If you had asked me what "third down and twenty" meant back in highschool, I would have told you it was a dress size. 
While in Ann Arbor, I have witnessed all different levels of English as a Second Language (ESL). Some people know English very well, while others are still practicing. I think that this basic difference is what makes Ann Arbor such a diverse town to call home. 
I was just in the Bob and Betty Beyster Building. In that building, you definitely get to see this on stage. The amount of people who are of Chinese descent is staggering. The Chinese descendent people congregate around the Ping-Pong tables. Ping-Pong is their national sport, just like we Americans have Football and Baseball. The many differences are ever present. Around the ping pong tables of the Bob and Betty Beyster Building, there is more Mandarin spoken, than plain English. First, this shows exonormative stabilizers, in which communities secure balance under foreign dominance. 

I would describe my spoken and written languages as one of the prime examples of the great northern vowel shift. I can already see it happening with my speech, let alone others'. I do not think we have any dialect endangerment in this part of the country. Much like the American South, the Upper Midwestern accent is staying around. I would also describe my speech as having been influenced by the African American English (AAE) because a lot of our speech comes from this African American English. "Chicken and Waffles" who would have ever heard of that if not for the African American community of Detroit. In all parts of America, a great Northern vowel shift is occurring. One of the most fascinating facts about this time is the recent immigration of Asians to this country. A statement which I felt was clearly shown in the Bob and Betty Beyster example I gave. We all came from all over the world to now settling in Ann Arbor. 
In conclusion, the study of many different dialects, past, present, and future, is truly astonishing because travelling through all this different history is something to behold. I picked up English as my native language because that the language that everybody around me spoke. We here in Michigan have a self-proclaimed "Perfect English." Meaning that in the eyes of Michiganders, they are without an accent. When you look at a map of the country overlaid with linguists' markings, you will see profound history of our country. Language and social advancement go hand in hand. I do believe I have found my paper assignment; this week reading was interesting to me. I hope all the chapters from here on in look at chapter four to get their inspiration.


