Brad Ebenhoeh
Linguistic 403
9/28/17

       My journey into the world of languages in what we call the State of Michigan was pretty awe-inspiring. I first started with a little search at the library, where I found the WPA guide to Michigan, the "Great Lakes States", 1939. They showed German beginning in the 1830s and Finnish predominantly in co-operatives in the Upper Peninsula, according to a 1937 survey. They also showed Polish, Ukrainian, Danish, Welsh, Hungarian, Armenian, Croatian, and Serbian in societies. I also found a book saying Detroit, which is an area around Southeastern Michigan, had societies that spoke Greek, Arabic, Armenian, Bulgarian, Turkish, Hindustan, Italian, Polish, Russian, Serbian, Albanian, and Macedonian. My research was very interesting because I did not know of all the languages in what we call the State of Michigan. I additionally encountered some faint traces of Native American languages including Iroquois, which was the predominant tribe in Michigan. 
       Next, I contacted Terrence Mcdonald, a curator of the Bentley library here on campus. He was the teacher of the course, the History of the State of Michigan. I was initially placed in contact with him by the LSA advising center, or the Newnan Center. He suggested two sites for me to go to website and website. The first site is "a useful intro to the history of the state" of Michigan (T Mcdonald Email). Most of what I said is already on this website but, the level of detail in the "early inhabitants" were much greater. This page said "the Native American population of what is present-day Michigan including the Ottawa, Ojibwa, Miami, Potawatomi, [and]...Algonquian." This source also said the British were responsible for the upkeep of Fort Michilimackinac. The second site was, curious (as I found that as well in my google queries last night), "nice information about the state today, but the section on ancestry is also relevant to the history of languages in the state" (Email, T. Mcdonald). This website listed Irish, Scottish, French-Canadian, Swedish, and Norwegian as "self-reported ancestry" of the people. I also learned two interesting insights about Hispanic ancestry and Asian ancestry from this source. 
       My further delving into the subject of languages that were spoken in the past was unfruitful. My website listings came up with nothing of real importance, just what I have previously mentioned. 
       


