	
 
 SUNNYVALE - DOCTOR'S OFFICE - NIGHT - 2002
, 20, good-looking but with dark haunted eyes, frantically hides himself in an unlit Doctor's office. His face and chest are covered in blood. He holds his forehead in pain.
FLASHLIGHT BEAMS stab through the darkened corridor hunting for him. ALARMS SOUND. GUARDS are heard shouting to each other.  grabs a cardboard box and hides under a doctor's desk. He grabs some paper and begins writing in shorthand.

(as he writes)
If anyone finds this, then I guess my plan didn't work and I'm already dead...
He takes a deep breath.

But if I can just go back to the beginning of all this, I still might be able to save her.
Fatigue overwhelms him, but he continues writing...
 BUSY HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY 
TITLE: TWENTY YEARS EARLIER
 TREBORN, twenty-five, an attractive pregnant woman strapped to a gurney, is rolled down a busy hospital corridor. She is clearly ready to give birth, and as she flails her arms, she knocks another patient's IV bottle into the wall. 
 BUSY HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - SUPER 8 FOOTAGE 
A tearful  holds newborn  in her hands.
TITLE SEQUENCE OVER SUPER-8 MONTAGE INCLUDING:
 BUSY HOSPITAL - RECOVERY ROOM - DAY 
Smiling  holds baby  up to the camera, then places him in a crib.
 PLAYGROUND - DAY - 1983
A playground. 's father, JASON (23), puts a 1-year old on a slide.
 'S HOUSE - DAY - 1987
A birthday party for , 5, a chubby kid with only a few friends. , now 5, is gently prodded by  toward KAYLEIGH, 5, a quiet sweet-looking girl with beautiful hair.
 clumsily shakes her hand and she quickly leans over and kisses his cheek. He blushes and runs to hug his mother's leg.
END MONTAGE & TITLES.
 'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING 
In the driveway, 7-year old  plays with CRICKETT, a frisky cocker spaniel puppy.
, wearing a mechanic's jumpsuit, works impatiently on the carburetor of a Toyota Celica.  pets the dog as he watches his mother work.

Okay, okay...what now?
 quickly eyes the situation and grabs the 5/16" wrench from the toolbox.

We're gonna be late again.

When did you ever care about getting to school on time?

We're putting up pictures for Parent's Night.
 impatiently watches  turn the bolt.

Righty-tighty, lefty-lucy.

Thanks. Don't worry , you'll have plenty of time.
The carburetor will not set properly. She bangs on it with the wrench.

(re: carb)
Darn it!

Um...can dad come this time?

(getting impatient)
You know the answer to that.

Can't he come out for one day?

We've been over this a hundred times. It's too dangerous for him.

But  said that his dad's coming...and  and Kayleigh's dad...
 hands the wrench to .

Here, Ev... Finish this up for me.
 beams as he climbs onto the bumper and screws the carb back together. , meanwhile, strips off her coveralls, revealing a spotless nurse's uniform underneath.

All the dads are gonna be there.

I get the point, kiddo. But I'm not so bad, am I?

No.

Good. Because I've been waiting to see your art projects all week and I'd feel terrible if all you thought about was your father not being there.
, disappointed, passes the wrench back to .

(beat)
Done. Try it.
 gets behind the wheel. She turns the ignition and the engine roars to life.  wears a proud smile.

You're amazing, kiddo.
 SCHOOL PARKING LOT - MORNING 
 races through the school zone and heads for the main doors. 's already got the car door open and his foot on the ground by the time the car skids to a halt.  checks her watch.

Okay have a great day I love you I'll pick you up later gotta go...
 blows  a kiss goodbye and runs into the school. As  pulls away, , 35, taps the car window.

Mrs. Treborn! I need to speak with you!

I'm sorry, but can it wait til tonight? I'm already late for work --
's morbid expression stops .

I think you really need to see this.
 ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - CLASSROOM - MOMENTS LATER
The classroom is filled with screaming, running children.  enters the classroom with  and immediately calls out to , a tough seven-year old kid who swings a whiffle bat at , now seven, a sniffling, chubby kid.

! Leave  alone! Don't make me send you to Mr. Voytek's office!
 is surprised to see his mother enter with , but continues playing with Kayleigh, now seven, a quiet, sweet-looking girl.
 leads  over to the teacher's desk.

I was going to show this to the principal, but I wanted to talk to you first.

What is it?

Yesterday I had all the children draw pictures of what they wanted to be when they grew up. Most of them made drawings of what their parents did, but this...
 opens the bottom drawer of her desk and pulls out a drawing.  turns to stone when she sees it.

I don't understand... did this?
The drawing shows a child holding a bloody knife while standing on a heap of dead bodies. It's extremely sophisticated for a seven-year old. Some of the corpses have been cut open and the insides are surprisingly anatomically correct.
 sees  playing with , harmless as a bunny, and struggles to control her concern.

Thank you for showing it to me first. I'll...I'll take care of it. Can I have the picture?

Of course. There is one more thing, Mrs. Treborn. And I feel bad for mentioning it...

What?

When I asked  about his drawing, well, he didn't remember doing it.
 is visibly shaken now.

I have to go.
 SCHOOL PARKING LOT - LATER
 seems so impacted by this revelation that she cannot even start the car.
 ELEMENTARY SCHOOL - LATER
The children hang artwork on the walls in prep for Parent's Night. Each child has a picture of his or her family made from colored construction paper and macaroni. 's picture (no longer sophisticated) depicts his mother, Crockett and himself on a green hill.  and Kayleigh's pictures each show two kids and a single father. And their 'mother' is stuck to the far end of page.
 beams as he pins-up his picture of an ideal nuclear family. He looks at 's picture and is confused.

You put the mommy too far away.  has macaroni and glue if you wanna fix it.

You're such a retard!
KAYLEIGH
Mommy lives far away but she comes and visits.

(to )
If I'm retarded, why didn't my mommy move away from me?
 gets upset. He swipes his hand down 's picture and his macaroni "mother" crumbles to the floor.  begins to cry.

Hey, what'd you do that for?

Fat little baby, crying for mommy.
 takes the ruined picture and leans down next to .

Come on, . It's not that bad. You can still see your mom a little.
, unable to stop crying, begins hyperventilating out of control. His desperate gasps for breath are frightening.
, scared, looks around for , but cannot find her. He reaches up to his own picture and quickly tears his own macaroni "mother" apart and places it over 's picture. It's a nuclear family again.  slowly is able to catch his breath.

(grateful)
Can..can...Can I have this?

Sure. I was gonna make a new one, anyway.
Kayleigh helps  glue a new "mother" in place and she smiles gratefully at .
As  smiles back at Kayleigh,  calmly enters the room in time to see  tacking up his butchered family portrait. She shivers.
 SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY 
Gothic. Imposing.  runs up the stairs.
 SUNNYVALE - 'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
DR. HARLON REDFIELD, 40, a handsome and extremely genial man, scrutinizes a disturbing drawing.

And you say he doesn't remember any of it?

(anxious)
Not according to his teacher. It just got me thinking about Jason and what if 's inherited his father's condition?

Hold it, hold it, . Let's not jump to conclusions. I'll run some preliminary tests, see what we can rule out.
 nods and forces a thankful smile.

Tell you what, bring  here tonight and we'll run a CAT-scan series.
 SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - NIGHT
The looming building looks even more frightening at night.  and  head up the stairs.

I don't like this place, Mom. It's creepy. Please can we go? I promise I won't make any more bad pictures!

(lighthearted)
You'll be fine.  just wants to give you some tests. You'll like him.
 SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - NIGHT
 leads  into 's office.  warmly greets  at the door.

Hello, . It's very nice to meet you.
(to )
He's as handsome as his father.

(stunned)
You know my father?
Before  can answer,  cuts him off.

That's why I wanted you to come here, .  already has a background in memory loss.

My father has a bad memory, too?

(off 's look)
Uh, tell you what, . If it's okay with your mother, I'd like to run some tests. Nothing scary.
 raises an eyebrow at the doctor.

Okay, it might be a little scary...
 LABORATORY - MOMENTS LATER
 looks terrified as he lies on a medical platform as a series of CAT-scan images are taken. In another part of the room, a distressed  speaks quietly with .

Just tell me that  doesn't have Jason's illness...

Look, , I'm sure he'll test negative for brain disorders. But there's something else you can try to monitor his memory.

Anything.

A journal. Just have him write down everything he does.

Why? What for?

It could be extremely useful to jog his memory. See if he remembers anything new the next day. And I'll have the test results back in a few days.
 'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING
The next morning.  busily writes in his new black-marble mead comp book:
'S DIARY
Today Mommy is taking me to play with Kayley and . I will mete there father and see what a real dad is like. Maybe one day I will mete my Dad.
, meanwhile, speaks into the phone as she pours Lucky Charms into a cereal bowl for .

Thanks, George. I really appreciate you watching him, he won't be any trouble at all.
 puts down the journal and eats breakfast. He separates the green clovers from the cereal and drops them to the floor for Crockett to nibble.

These'll bring you luck, Crockett.

(into phone)
Great. I'll see you soon.
 hangs up the phone and walks into the next room.
 HOUSE - DAY
 grabs the pocket book off the coffee table and heads back into the kitchen. She drops her purse in shock when she sees:
, in doorway, expressionless and holding a large BUTCHER KNIFE by his side.

?
 sees her but remains expressionless.

? What are you doing with that knife?
Life suddenly springs into 's face. He seems stunned to find himself holding the knife and drops it.

(scared)
What happened?

Honey. What were you doing with that?

(tears welling)
I...I don't remember.
 MILLER HOUSE - MORNING
, still shaken, drops  off at the house of GEORGE MILLER, 35, a handsome athletic man with an infectious smile. He approaches the car and opens the door for .

Hey, .
(to )
Hello little man.
 writes nervously on a piece of paper as  gets out.

Thanks a lot George. Here's my work number in case there are any problems.

(lighthearted laughter)
Whaddaya kidding? We're going to have a great time today, right ?
 nods thanks and nervously drives away.  walks up to  and momentarily reaches for his hand.  flinches his hand away and chuckles at .

You waiting for an invitation? The kids are inside.
 appears confused for a moment at 's unexpected rudeness, but walks inside.
 MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY
 enters the well-kept middle class home and sees his classmates Kayleigh and . Kayleigh is dressed in a make-shift Medieval gown and  is also dressed in a period costume.
KAYLEIGH
(excited to see )
, guess what? Dad got a new video camera and we're all gonna be in a movie.

I don't think  gets to be in it --
KAYLEIGH
Quit it, .  gets to be Robin Hood. I'm gonna be Maid Marian, and you're the Sheriff of Nottingham!

I thought I was the bad guy!
KAYLEIGH
You are, silly. He's a bad sheriff.
, holding a full glass of scotch in one hand, sets the circa-80's bulky video camera on a tripod and plugs it into the porta-deck.

We're really gonna be in a movie!?

That's right, , and you get to be the star.

I thought I was the star.

Shut up, moron. Now get in your costume, . And you have to promise, your bestest super-duper promise, that this will be our little secret. Think you can do that?
 nods and sticks his arms straight up in the air.  downs his drink and helps  off with his clothes. Suddenly --
HARD CUT TO:
 MILLER'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DAY
 comes to in an unfamiliar place. The rec-room/basement. 's eyes dart from the fireplace to 's camera lens and finally to Kayleigh, whose ashen face trembles slightly.
Panic spreads across 's face.

Where am I? What happened? Where did we all go?

Calm down, kid. Stand still.
 backs up and awkwardly scurries around the basement, grabbing his clothes. Panicking.

I was just somewhere else - how did I get here?

Quit acting like some retard or I'll call your mother and tell her what a naughty little shit you've been.

Kayleigh? What happened?
Kayleigh's eyes are unable to leave the floor. She begins adjusting her disheveled clothing.  trembles.

What's wrong with me?
 silently watches from the top of the basement stairs, absently wringing the head off one of his sister's dolls.
 SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY
 places 's CAT-scan slides on the light box.  squints, unable to interpret them.

Well, the good news is that the results are negative. I've found no evidence in the way of lesions, hemorrhaging, tumors...

And the bad news?

Unfortunately, we've got nothing to work with. It's harder playing detective now.

But you must have something to go on?

If I had to guess, I'd say the blackouts are stress related.

But he's seven. What kind of stress can he have?

Plenty. Who knows? Maybe he's got severe coping problems about not having a father. Did you say the last blackout occurred when he was with his friend's dad.

Come on, I doubt the answer's that simple.

You'd be surprised how often they are.

Well, he has been pushing me to meet his father, but I've been putting it off.

It's worth a shot. I can arrange a controlled meeting. A careful dose of sedatives for Jason, some security, you and I monitoring.  comes in for a quick visit and with any luck, no more missing father complex.

How soon?...
 'S CAR - COUNTRY ROAD - DAY
, dressed in his Sunday best, writes copiously in a journal marked "AGE 7."
'S DIARY
April 15. Today I get to mete my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy. I hope he lets me call him dad.
 SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY
 tightly grips 's hand as the pair follow  down a corridor. 's enthusiasm is dampened by the sounds of distant screams and bloodcurdling laughter.

Dad lives here?

Not in this wing, actually. No.

Now your father may seem sleepy to you, but that's just because of his medicine, okay?

Okay.
They walk to the end of the corridor and come to a "Visitor's Chamber".  leads  inside.  begins to follow, but the doctor gestures that she stay outside.
 SUNNYVALE - VISITOR'S CHAMBER - CONTINUOUS
 takes a seat at a long rectangular table. His eyes are fixated on the door on the other side of the room. Finally, a dark figure can be seen through the opaque glass.
JASON, thirty and haggard looking, enters the room. His eyes want to sparkle at seeing his son for the first time. But tranquilizers have dulled the effect.
's eyes fixate on the leg-restraints and handcuffs that hinder Jason's movement. Finally Jason sits.
He smiles warmly and speaks in over-enunciated tones.
JASON
It's okay. I won't bite. You've seen pictures of me, right?

Uh-huh. Mom says I have your eyes and your --
SMASH CUT TO:
 SUNNYVALE - VISITOR'S CHAMBER - DAY
 "comes to" in another unfamiliar place. Rather than seeing his father across a table, he's looking up at a ceiling.
Blocking his view of the ceiling is Jason, whose face is now monstrous with rage, and whose cuffed hands are wrapped around 's throat, choking the life out of him.
JASON
(through clenched teeth)
I...love...you.
Suddenly, ORDERLIES tackle Jason from both sides and wedge a baton under his jaw to wrench him away.  frantically struggles to rescue  from Jason's clutches.
JASON
(panicking)
He has to die! You don't understand! It's the only way to stop it!
Jason wrestles the baton from under his chin, hits an orderly in the kneecap and comes for  with the baton!
Orderly #2 acts quickly, beating Jason with his baton. As Jason makes another desperate grab for , Orderly #2 is forced to bash him in the skull. Down for the count.
 hugs , now in shock.

I'm sorry, . I'm sorry.
And ALARM sounds and  tries to cover 's eyes, but through her fingers he can see a quick blur of a pool of blood spreading from Jason's head.
FADE TO BLACK.
FADE IN:
 CEMETERY - DAY 
Dressed in black,  and  watch Jason's casket being lowered into the ground. 's tears soak through her veil. A few feet back, Kayleigh stands behind .
PRIEST
Ashes to ashes...dust to dust.
 watches the coffin descend, disappearing from sight. Kayleigh steps up to  and takes his hand. A moment. And she softly whispers in 's ear.
KAYLEIGH
You're better off anyway.
A rumble of thunder.  looks up at the brooding dark clouds.
 CEMETERY - DUSK
Gray skies.  drives the children home.  stares at the passing tombstones that flutter by like a white picket fence. The flickering strobe effect that intensifies into a white blur is hypnotic.
SLOWLY DISSOLVE TO:
 MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY - 1995
Bright and sunny. The lawn freshly cut. A Toro lawnmower has been carelessly left in the grass-strewn driveway.
TITLE: SIX YEARS LATER
CRANE DOWN to the window of the --
 MILLER'S HOUSE - BASEMENT
, Kayleigh,  and  are now THIRTEEN.  exhales cigarette smoke, taps his ash and finishes sketching a portrait of Kayleigh in his journal.
 wears a leather jacket and now has traces of peach fuzz on his upper lip. Kayleigh's hair is longer now, albeit stringy and unkempt.
 closes his journal and coolly ignites a STRIKE-ANYWHERE MATCH with his thumb and lights Kayleigh's cigarette. Everyone but  smokes in the basement.
, now with longer hair, ransacks his father's army locker looking for something.

, I'm bored shitless over here. What's up already?

Hold your horses, man. It's here somewhere. I saw it when I was a kid.
 absently chucks an old Playboy toward . Kayleigh seems uncomfortable by the sight of it.
KAYLEIGH
(to )
We should go soon. If Dad catches us smoking down here, we're dead.

So let's go. This place creeps me out.
 claps his hands and stands up,  and Kayleigh join him. Finally,  shakes an old army thermos and hears something rattling inside.

I knew it had something to do with the army.
 opens the thermos, tips it over and a blockbuster (1/4 stick of dynamite) spills out.  grins mischievously.

Let's blow the shit out of something!
 HALPERNS' FOREST - DAY
 leads , Kayleigh and  on a mission through the woods. Everyone smokes except , yet he's the only one who's wheezing. He pulls out an inhaler and takes a puff.

Guys, slow up, would you?
KAYLEIGH
, did I tell you? My mother said I might be able to visit her this summer in Orlando with her new family.

What did I say about mentioning that bitch?
KAYLEIGH
(uncomfortable)
Where the hell are you taking us anyway? Just blow something up already.

Just blow something up? Are you nuts? There's an art to mass destruction. Would you just paint the Mona Lisa? No. Besides, we're here already.
Now at the edge of the woods,  spots:
 MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - CONTINUOUS
A MAILBOX sits at the end of the driveway. It's exquisite. An exact replica of a Colonial home it serves.
Across the street,  hands the blockbuster to .

Here you go, buddy.

(recoiling)
What? No frigging way, man. I'm not touching that thing.

The hell you aren't. Anyone of us does it, you'll puss out and narc for sure.

Ain't gonna work this time, buddy. Look how small that fuse is! I'll get killed.

Not necessarily.
All eyes turn to  as he takes his lit cigarette, breaks off the filter and jams the fuse into the unlit end.

That should buy you ten minutes at least.

Gee, thanks friend.
 MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - CONTINUOUS
 paces back and forth next to the three-story mailbox, desperately trying to appear nonchalant. He pretends to notice his shoe's untied and bends down to tie it. From the woods, the other kids watch anxiously.

Oh, for Christ's sake, just do it, .
Finally,  throws the bomb in the mailbox. Then sprints like hell to the woods. Kayleigh shakes 's inhaler and hands it to him when he gets back.

(taking puff)
Thanks.
 pats  on the back.

You got balls, man.
The four watch the mailbox in intense anticipation.  smiles with the cigarette pressed tightly between his lips and places his hands over Kayleigh's ears. She smiles back at him and presses his hands against her head.  catches this and seems disturbed, and quickly turns back to --
The mailbox. Tick-tock...tick-tock...It's like a staring contest...
SMASH CUT TO:
 HALPERNS' FOREST - DAY
, running full speed, comes to in an unfamiliar place. He instantly loses his footing and falls to the ground. , falling on top of him.

Hurry! Let's go! Get him up, ! Come on!

(frantic)
What happened?? Where are we?!
 gets up and starts running, then realizes he's not being followed. Kayleigh and  are helping  up and carrying him.  realizes that 's completely dazed.  doubles back, grabs 's arm and he and  drag  through the woods as fast as they can.
KAYLEIGH
(crying)
Oh God...what did we do?

Shit, . What's happened to you! We've gotta get help!
SMASH CUT TO:
 'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY
's car screeches to the curb of 's house. 's mother, Mrs. Kagan, frantically loads  into an ambulance.
As  rushes up to the ambulance, Mrs. Kagan gives her an icy glare and slams the ambulance door in 's face.  turns to , now trembling on the front stoop.

What is it? What happened?

(staring menacingly at the others)
We were just building a fort in the woods when  freaked out. One minute he was fine, then he just froze up. Right guys?

What happened, ? The truth.

I don't know... I don't remember.

Something must've happened! What set him off?

I...I blacked out.

(building frustration)
Don't try to use your blackouts to get out of this one!
 looks helpless.

You're not making this up, are you?
 shakes his head "no". Almost ashamed...
DISSOLVE TO:
 'S OFFCIE - DAY
 lies on a couch.

With every breath you exhale, you can feel all of the tension draining from your body like water through a faucet. Nine, ten, and you're completely asleep. Relaxed.
 breathes slowly. Deeply.  watches nervously from the far side of the room.

Now I want you to go back to the time you were in the woods with . Think of it like a movie. You can pause, rewind, or slow down any details you wish. Understand?

Yes.

Where are you now?

I'm standing next to Kayleigh, my hands are over her ears.

Are you hurting her?

No, protecting her.
 suppresses the tiniest of proud smiles.

Okay. Then go a little forward in time. What do you see now?

I see a car.
's eyes suddenly roll back in his head.

Yes, tell me about the car.
 moans and begins shaking.

Go on. Nothing can hurt you. Remember, this is only a movie. You're completely safe.

(moaning)
I can't...the car vanishes and all of a sudden I'm on the ground in the woods.

The car doesn't vanish . The movie in your head has broken, that's all. But now I've respliced it and I want you to tell me about the car.

It's coming...argh! I can't!
 moans and shakes on the couch.

Fight it . Hurry. It's coming!
Blood begins to trickle from 's nose as a guttural sound is uttered from deep within him.  bolts upright in his chair and redirects the session.

Okay, . Listen to my voice! On the count of ten, you're going to wake up. Feeling refreshed and remembering everything we talked about.
 moans in agony.  darts into the room.

What's happening to him?? Make it stop!
 waves her away and concentrates on .

One. You're feeling more awake now. Two, your eyes no longer feel heavy.
 moves to stop the blood flowing from 's nose. She lifts 's eyelids and sees only the whites of his eyes.

Five. Six. Refreshed and awake! Seven, eight. Come on, , wake up, dammit!
 is completely non-responsive.

 wake up, oh please wake up!

Nine, ten. And you're awake! Open your eyes, dammit!
Nothing but moans and blood.  frantically opens some desk drawers until he finds smelling salts. He breaks a small capsule under 's mouth, pinches his bleeding nose closed and lets  inhale the vapor through his mouth.
 lurches forward on the couch and falls off. Holding his bloody nose.

What happened? Did it work?
 deduces the answer from everyone's horrified faces.
 MULTIPLEX THEATER - PARKING LOT - DUSK
 drops off , Kayleigh and  outside the complex. Kayleigh, looking morose, shuts the car door and  drives off. They walk through the parking lot.

(to Kayleigh)
Wipe that sad-assed look off your face before you get us all busted. You see the way 's mom was looking at you?
KAYLEIGH
I'm sorry.

Would someone just tell me already what the hell happened in the mailbox?
On "mailbox",  suddenly grabs 's jacket and SHOVES him against a parked car.  looks around to make sure nobody heard anything.

Don't ever bring that shit up again. Not ever. Not to me, not to Kayleigh, or even . The stupid fuck if he ever learns to talk again. Understand?
 nods, scared.  gives a final shove.

Ever.
(re: Kayleigh)
She don't want to talk about it, anyway. Do you Kayleigh?
's right. Kayleigh clearly doesn't.
 MULTIPLEX THEATER LOBBY - DUSK
Kayleigh shuffles behind  and  as they head toward the theatre.  drops back.

Are you okay?
Kayleigh says nothing as  sees the theatre playing SEVEN and whispers.

There it is. Let's go.
 'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT
 does the dishes as the TV plays a NEWSCAST in the b.g.
ANCHOR
(on TV)
...was the grizzly aftermath of what police officials of upstate New York are calling a horrible act of vandalism gone awry.
 turns to the TV, blocking our view. We can only hear the report as she watches intensely.
ANCHOR
The powerful explosion is believed to have been caused by a small quantity of dynamite.
's face looks haunted by the on-screen images. She shakes her head in terror and grabs the remote.
ANCHOR
Police thus far have no leads as to the suspects...
She clicks off the TV, trembling.
 MULTIPLEX THEATER - NIGHT
The movie's in progress.  and Kayleigh sit behind .

Holy shit! Look at that fat fuck! You'd have to wipe his ass with a forklift!
Some crowd members TURN around and give  a SHUSH.  whips M&Ms at them.

Shut up, faggot. No one's talking to you!
Kayleigh, repulsed, suddenly darts fro the aisle and runs out.  follows.
 LOBBY - CONTINUOUS
 follows her to a small alcove.

I'm sorry Kayleigh. This was a bad idea.
KAYLEIGH
You really don't remember anything that happened?
 shakes his head "no". She looks devastated.
KAYLEIGH
You're so lucky.
She begins to cry.  makes sure no one's staring.

It's going to be okay. 'll be fine. You'll see.
He reaches to comfort her. But she winces.
KAYLEIGH
Ouch.

I'm sorry.
She pulls her sleeve up, revealing a large bruise.
KAYLEIGH
It's not your fault. Mrs. Kagan called dad and blamed us for what happened to .

Damn. Your dad did this?
Kayleigh pulls back her shirt collar to show an even larger, darker bruise.
KAYLEIGH
(looking down)
I deserve a lot worse.

What are you talking about? What you deserve is a better brother and father. All they do is make you feel like shit.
She looks into his eyes.

You really have no clue how beautiful you are, do you?
She searches his eyes for sincerity. And finds it. They lean into each other for a TENDER KISS. After a moment, a ROAR from nearby.
 (O.S.)
What the fuck are you doing??
They jerk back to see , shocked and betrayed, staring at them from across a small crowd. By now, some teens chuckle at .
TEEN PUNK (O.S.)
Buying popcorn, what the fuck are you doing?
 rushes through the small crowd at . His hands in fists. Suddenly a FOOT reaches out and trips .  falls to the floor and the crowd cackles at him.
 slowly gets up, locks eyes with . Hatred oozing.
 looks guilty, weakly shaking his head, it's not what you're thinking.
 suddenly lunges at the TEEN PUNK who must be at least a foot taller than he is.  lands a flurry of punches before the Teen Punk can even defend himself, frequently taking opportunities to eyeball .
, Kayleigh and even the punk's FRIENDS look on helplessly when TWO SECURITY GUARDS SEIZE .  valiantly struggles against them at first. But the moment he realizes it's hopeless, he allows his body to go slack.
As  is being dragged away, he turns to , a sick smile on his face.
 and Kayleigh look back, speechless.
 'S CAR - NIGHT
 drives through the winding roads.
CLOSE UP
's eyes. Tormented.
REVEAL she's driving  and Kayleigh home. 's up front and Kayleigh sits behind them. Everyone silent.
 stares through the rearview mirror into
KAYLEIGH'S EYES
Probing. Searching.

So how was the movie?
KAYLEIGH
Okay.
 watches Kayleigh. A calculated beat.

Any exploding mailboxes?
Kayleigh flinches at the question. And  catches it.  can't help but look back at Kayleigh. Oh my god, she knows.
KAYLEIGH
(faking poorly)
What do you mean?
 pulls the car over and stops. After a moment, Kayleigh realizes she's at her house. She exits the car in a hurry.

Goodnight.
 stares at , who keeps his eyes facing dead ahead. She finally shifts the car into gear.

We're moving.
 says nothing.
FADE TO BLACK.
 'S HOUSE - MORNING
A "For Sale" sign is now planted on the front lawn. , in her nurse uniform, exits the house to her car.
 'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS
 discreetly watches her leave through the window. Grabs his coat and exits frame.
 'S HOUSE - DAY
Kayleigh and  walk down toward the house.

I can't believe 's still pissed at me. He knows I'm moving away, right?
KAYLEIGH
He's been acting real strange lately. He won't even look me in the eyes anymore.

Duck, here they come.
As a station wagon rolls up the street,  and Kayleigh duck in nearby bushes.
KAYLEIGH
Did your mom say if  was...okay?

He must be. They're letting him go, right?
The station wagon finally heads into the driveway.  puts on a smile and charges the car, pounding the window.

Welcome home, !
Inside the car,  jerks back in horror. Mrs. Kagan looks angry as she rolls the window down.
MRS. KAGAN
I think your little homecoming's in bad taste.
The smile fades from 's face. Kayleigh hangs back.

Sorry?
MRS. KAGAN
(acidic)
's been through a hell of an ordeal no thanks to you.
 and Kayleigh look guilty as the garage door opens up and Mrs. Kagan continues into the garage.
 'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS
Alone,  concentrates on a MODEL AIRPLANE. There is a sudden KNOCK at the window. 's head jerks around to see  and Kayleigh smiling through the window.
 'S WINDOW - CONTINUOUS
 and Kayleigh stand on the ivy-covered trellis.

(quietly)
Welcome home. Thought you might like some fresh air for a change.
KAYLEIGH
Hi, .
 twitches ever-so-slightly.

Is  with you guys?
 shakes his head "no".

It's cool.
 looks back at the model airplane. Needs to think.
 JUNKYARD WOODS - DAY
,  and Kayleigh pass a junk pile in the woods.
KAYLEIGH
(to )
So what did you do in there?

It was awful. You can't sleep 'cause everyone's screaming all night long. I never want to go back.
As  and Kayleigh absorb this in silence, they see a column of smoke billowing in the horizon.
KAYLEIGH
Do you see that?
 and Kayleigh run toward the smoke.  nervously follows behind.
They exit the woods to find:
 JUNKYARD - CONTINUOUS
 has stuffed a dog into a gunny sack which he douses with lighter fluid. Next to a campfire.

Crockett!!
 and Kayleigh rush toward the trapped, helpless dog.  is ready for them. He drops the lighter fluid, picks up a wooden plank and SWINGS!  ducks back at the last minute and  accidentally connects with Kayleigh's head. Knocking her unconscious.

Look what you made me do!

What's wrong with you?!
, enraged, fakes a high swing, then goes for 's knee cap. BASH!  doubles over in pain and falls to the ground, clutching his knee.
 moves to the fire, Crockett squirming inside the bag and picks up the lighter fluid.
 painfully looks up from the ground and his eyes dart from the sight of Kayleigh, unconscious, to Crockett, trapped in the tied gunny sack.

Kayleigh! Wake up!
No response.

Why don't you fucking kiss her, Prince Charming!
 squeezes the bottle hard, creating a flaming fuse from the campfire to the fluid soaked dog.
As the flames near Crockett, , seething with rage, stands up with clenched fists and CHARGES  at FULL SPEED --
SMASH CUT TO:
 JUNKYARD - DAY
 comes to in an unfamiliar place. Still in running mode. His body contorts spastically like a fish on land, since he is now lying face down on the ground.
 regains himself and sits up painfully. His face is badly bruised and he clutches his battered ribs.

How long was I out?
He gets no answer from , who stands in the exact same spot.  is nowhere in sight and the sound is of Kayleigh weeping.  spins to face her.

Kayleigh?! Are you okay? Where's Crockett?
Kayleigh, her knees drawn tightly to her chest, is unable to answer through her tears.  struggles to rise but he becomes dizzy and falls back to the ground.
 takes a quick glance toward the gunny sack, smouldering then moans and buries his head in his hands.
 'S HOUSE - DAY
A small neighborhood CROWD has gathered to watch an ambulance with the SUNNYVALE insignia take an entranced  away. Mrs. Kagan is about to climb in the rear when she stops and turns to .
MRS. KAGAN
(ice cold)
Do you know what you are? A monster.
 stands there, speechless.
 'S HOUSE - DAY
A packed U-HAUL sits in front of 's house.  shifts the small truck into gear and slowly pulls out.
Outside the truck, Kayleigh waves to , tears spilling shamelessly down her cheeks.  reaches behind his seat and opens a large cardboard box. It is filled with past journals. He finds the most recent journal, uncaps a pen and writes something.
Finished he presses the journal to the window.
'S DIARY
I'll come back for you.
 waves back to her, trying nonchalantly to wipe away his own tears as she fades into the distance.
When Kayleigh disappears from sight,  looks over to see what he's written.

I'm sorry.
 returns the journal and begins writing furiously.
SLOW DISSOLVE TO:
 COLLEGE CLASSROOM - DAY - 2002
TITLE: SEVEN YEARS LATER
, twenty now, continues writing in a college Blue Book. He is older, dressed down in worn jeans, T-shirt and plaid flannel. He closes the Blue Book with a cocky grin just as PROFESSOR CARTER, 40, calls out to the class:
PROFESSOR CARTER
Time! Please place your blue books on my desk before you leave.
 grabs his psychology textbook from under his seat, gets up and turns in his exam.
PROFESSOR CARTER
How'd you do, ?
 flashes a confident smile.

I'm not sure. I might have gotten some stories mixed up. Did Pavlof condition his dogs to lick his nuts?
PROFESSOR CARTER
(laughing)
Typical psych major. A complete wise ass. And how's your project coming? Still planning to change the way we humble scientists view memory assimilation?

(shrugging)
Hey, I got no choice.
Professor Carter nods solemnly, obviously in the know.
 COLLEGE - QUAD - DAY
 bikes past students.
 COLLEGE - FRAT HOUSE - DAY
 bikes past some obnoxious GREEKS.
 COLLEGE - 'S DORM - DAY
 docks his bike and carries his knapsack inside.
 'S DORM - MOMENTS LATER
's dorm is cluttered "double" whose walls are adorned with head-shop posters of Gothic rock bands.
By 's bed is a bookshelf filled with books on amnesia, memory loss, fugues, hypnotism and other related bands.
's roommate, THUMPER, 19, is a completely punked out Gothic boy who weighs 300 pounds. He currently hands a black lacy dress to CRICKET, 17, a pierced Goth co- ed. She slips the tattered dress on as Thumper wipes his post-coital self off with a black tee-shirt.
 barges through the door, throwing his pscyh books on the bed and politely looking away from the half-naked girl.

Whoa. Smells like patchouli and...ass.
 opens the window and checks out his Pscyh project: a small maze has several flatworms at one end and a bowl of cornflakes at the other.
THUMPER
Cricket, meet my well-mannered roommate, .
Cricket puts on her Doc Martens as  watches the worms.
CRICKET
Yeah, you're the one who fucked up the bell-curve on my Anthropology final. Later, Thumper.

Nice to meet you, too.
As she leaves, Thumper takes the black T-shirt by his wallet and throws it on 's bed.
THUMPER
Here, bro. Found your T-shirt.
 nods thanks, picks up his journal. Reads something and smiles.

Get dressed, Thumper, you're taking me out for my birthday.
THUMPER
I thought you were a December baby.

This is bigger. Seven years to the day. No blackouts.
Thumper pulls out a bong.
THUMPER
Let's do this.
 DIRTY HANK'S BAR - DAY
 DIRTY HANK'S BAR - CONTINUOUS
A popular watering hole. A dark rustic interior, blasting alternative rock. Plenty of underage students carry pitchers of beer to their tables.
 and Thumper play pool against two young women. HEIDI, beautiful, wears ripped jeans, no make up. She sinks the eleven ball off the rail. KRISTEN coolly smokes a cigarette, confident that she and Heidi will hold the table.
KRISTEN
So...which one of you has a pet worm?
Thumper proudly steps forward.
THUMPER
Worms, plural.
KRISTEN
That's so gross.
Thumper steps back, points to .
THUMPER
Talk to him about it, he's got the fetish.
Heidi sinks another ball and looks up at  strangely.

Actually, they're for a psych project. A study on memory.
Heidi misses her short and passes the cue to .
HEIDI
(stifling a yawn)
Shit, better explain before all the excitement gives me a heart attack.
 speaks as he knocks the one-ball in the corner pocket. As he talks, at a table behind them, some obnoxious Greeks; including HUNTER, SPENCER, and GWEN make fun of Thumper.

It's an experiment with flatworms and a maze. You take a flatworm and run it through the maze until he's memorized it. Then you put a new flatworm in the maze. He's clueless. Banging into walls, getting lost, whatever.
THUMPER
(thoughtfully)
Like Ozzy.
Gwen giggles as Spencer throws popcorn at Thumper's head.
SPENCER
Ten bucks says he eats it off the floor.
Thumper seems oblivious to their taunts as  knocks the three-ball in the side.

You chop up the smart flatworm and feed it to the dumb one and presto, the dumb one suddenly knows the maze inside and out.
 walks past Heidi, putting his hand on her shoulder to squeeze by. The hand lingers longer than necessary and Heidi doesn't mind. He sinks another ball.

Just by absorbing the first worm into its cellular structure, it gets all of the worm's memories.
THUMPER
(thoughtfully)
That's probably why Hannibal Lecter's so smart.
A handful of popcorn hits Thumper's face. They all try to ignore Hunter and Spencer's jeers.
HEIDI
So what's the point?

(setting up the eight)
Maybe if I can figure out how the memories of a simple worm function, it'll help me understand the complexities of the human brain.
Another barrage of popcorn hits Thumper's jacket. Although his hand clenches on the cue. He meekly shuffles away to the opposite side of the pool table from the cackling geeks.
HEIDI
(intrigued)
So are you planning on becoming a doctor or something?
Thumper casually takes the pool cue from .

No, I just don't want to lose my mind.
As Heidi digests this, Thumper carefully lines up his shot...The eight ball.
CRASH!!! The cue ball intentionally jumps the table, rocketing into the pitcher of beer on the Greek's table. They're all soaked with beer and debris.
Just as they begin to rise, Thumper smashes the cue stick on the table, WHISTLING innocently (while now brandishing a spear). They sit the fuck down.
Kristin, impressed, casually wraps her arm around Thumper's waist. He smiles coolly, it's nothing.

(to Heidi)
I think that's your game.
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 and Heidi, making out, burst through the door and fall on the bed. 's shirt is unbuttoned and Heidi strokes his chest. Suddenly Heidi stops and sniffs the air.
HEIDI
Smells like sex in here.

Thumper had a busy afternoon.
HEIDI
You're kidding. He's so...big.
 drunkenly crosses the room, grabs two beers from the mini-fridge.

Charisma and eyeliner go a long way, I guess. Wanna beer?
Heidi takes one. Looks under the bed.
HEIDI
Most guys tuck their porn under here, but all you have are... comp books.

Yeah. I've been keeping journals since I was seven.
HEIDI
(respectfully)
Wow...read something.
 chugs his beer and sits next to her on the bed and puts his arm around her. Very drunk.

No way, I'd be too embarrassed.
Heidi teasingly runs her fingers over his smooth torso.
HEIDI
Then keep drinking, worm-boy. You're too uptight.
 stops short.

Freeze! No "worm-boy". No "Mr. Worm," and no "Worm-Master-General!" Once you get a nickname like that you can't shake it. And I don't want everyone thinking I've got tapeworms coming out of my ass or something, okay?
HEIDI
(laughing)
Deal. Now read me something.
Heidi hands him a book marked "AGE 13". He flips it open to a random place and takes the beer from her hand.

(re: her beer)
For courage.
 takes and finishes her beer and begins reading. As he reads, he seems more and more on the verge of passing out.

It's like my mind refused to believe what it was seeing. Hearing Crockett make those awful screams... Just writing about it gives me the shivers.
Color drains from 's face as he realizes what he's reading. He looks over at Heidi, who kisses him.
HEIDI
Come on, go on...

It was like  was possessed or something. There was a hate in his eyes that I couldn't really call human.
As  reads, the world seems to ALMOST IMPERCEPTIBLY VIBRATE around him LIKE A TUNING FORK. His voice becomes distant and SOUNDS ECHO around him like distant memories resurrecting themselves...
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 JUNKYARD - DAY - 1995
 is THIRTEEN again. The scene begins exactly where 's blackout occurred as a child.  has just knocked Kayleigh unconscious with a wooden plank,  is frozen at the sight of Crockett in the fluid-soaked gunny sack. And , seething with rage, stands up with clenched fists and CHARGES  at full speed.
Only now,  almost seems caught off-guard to suddenly find himself running at full speed. He stumbles and falls to his knees at 's feet.
 looks around, utterly confused by his surroundings.

What the hell is going on?
Before an answer comes,  smiles at his good fortune and swings the plank, hitting 's head.  is sent sprawling backwards, his forehead bleeding freely.
 knocks  hard in the ribs with his boots.  writhes in agony, his face against the ground.
 moves toward the gunny sack, lifts it and tugs desperately on the rope that traps Crockett inside.

I can't undo the rope!
 spins around and flashes an evil smile.

Drop it or I'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
As if on cue,  does exactly as he's told. His eyes begin to glaze over.
, beaten and bloody, reaches out with his last bit of strength, grabs 's foot and holds on.

I got him, . Help Crockett!
 remains frozen in place.  yanks his leg back, breaking 's grip.  groans on the ground in a writhing heap.
's voice hitches. His eyes water from pent up frustration.

Listen to me good, . There's a million other sisters in the world. You didn't have to fuck with mine.
 smiles viciously at , traumatized to watch  pick up the lighter fluid and spray a liquid fuse from the campfire to the soaked gunny sack.
A WHOOSH OF FLAMES
And  passes out.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002
 comes to with Heidi slapping him awake.

Oh my God! No! No!
Heidi rolls her eyes.
HEIDI
Wake up, idiot. It was just a dream.
She stands and angrily puts on her jacket.

(freaked out)
It didn't feel like a dream.
HEIDI
Maybe because they never do.
(sarcastic)
So Don Juan, you pass out on all your dates?
 doesn't even hear her. After getting his bearings, he grabs his jacket and exits, leaving her dumbfounded.
 'S CAR - SUNRISE
 drives...
 'S HOUSE - DAY
, exhausted, finally pulls into 's driveway. Very little has changed in the past seven years.
 'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
ANGLE ON 
Now 20, making a model airplane. He's still overweight and looks like his mother dresses him.
PULL BACK TO REVEAL
The room is filled with model airplanes. Hundreds of them.
A KNOCK on 's bedroom door. Mrs. Kagan, grayer, fatter, opens the door and escorts  inside. She glares at  while pretending to be cheerful.
MRS. KAGAN
I've got a surprise for you, . You'll never guess who's here.
 looks up to see , his jaw drops.
ANGLE ON 
Looking around, shocked to see:
PAN ALL THE WAY AROUND THE ROOM. Nothing has changed in the past seven years. The same kids' toys, posters and comic books.
AS WE PAN ALL THE WAY AROUND TO 
We see he's working on the model again, in his own world. The window of opportunity for conversation has closed.

Hey, uh, it's me. .
Silence.  frowns.

What's that you're working on? A model?
Nothing.

Well, you look busy, so maybe I should make this quick. I'd totally understand if you didn't want to get into this right now, but that day at the junkyard, could you help me remember what happened? Any details?
No response.  picks up a model airplane from the desk.

I couldn't cut the rope.

(containing excitement)
Yeah, good, what else do you remember?

Drop it or I'll slit your mother's throat in her sleep.
, startled, drops the model on the desk. An epiphany.

Jesus Christ. It really happened.
 stares out the window.

What if I can get back all my lost memories with my journals.
With lightning speed,  jumps from his desk and unexpectedly shoves  IN TO THE WALL. Squadrons of hanging planes crash to the floor.  digs his fingers into 's shoulder.

Make one peep and I swear it'll be your last, motherfucker.
 is terrified. Then  suddenly moves back and begins working on the model again, his eyes a million miles away.  is speechless.
The door bursts open. Mrs. Kagan looks at the smashed model airplanes by 's feet.  ignores her accusing stare.

Well, thanks for seeing me, man. I shouldn't have waited so long.
When  doesn't respond, Mrs. Kagan hustles  back into the hallway.
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 pulls a dozen journals from beneath his bed and begins pouring over them. Nearby, Thumper empties a can of hairspray into his Mohawk.
THUMPER
You really think he wanted to kill you?

All I know is that I might be able to unblock some of my repressed memories.
He finds something he's looking for, marks the page with a yellow post-it note marked, BLACKOUT and sets the book in a separate pile.
As he sets the next journal on the bed, it automatically opens up to a place where the spine was bent. Staring up at him is the message:
'S DIARY
I will come back for you.
 looks overcome by guilt.
LATER THAT EVENING:
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 has now organized a pile of five journals. He selects an entry, begins reading and suddenly closes the journal. Fear covers his face. He holds one of his hands up and isn't surprised to see it trembling.
He opens his journal again and reads out loud.

(reading aloud)
The last thing I remember before the blackout was holding my hands over Kayleigh's ears...
(his voice slowly fades)
I think I was more focused on her hands on mine than the mailbox across the street...
His own words grow reverberant, distant. Furthermore, the walls behind him vibrate, slightly worse than before.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 MRS. HALPERN'S HOME - DAY - 1995
, Kayleigh,  and , all thirteen, watch the mailbox across the street with intense anticipation.
When  comes to in this memory, the lit cigarette absently drops from his mouth and nestles into the folds of his shirt, SMOLDERING.
The mailbox...tick-tock, tick-tock...Like a staring contest.

Maybe it went out. Should someone check it?

Yeah, you do that, .
Suddenly a car appears from down the street and slowly pulls into the driveway.
MRS. HALPERN, 24, an attractive young mother, gets out of the car and walks to the mailbox.
Across the street,  digs his fingers into the nerves of 's shoulder.

Make one peep and I swear it'll be your last, motherfucker.
's words make  flinch. From inside the car, a BABY begins to cry. Mrs. Halpern walks back to the car.
 looks on in horror and suddenly clenches his teeth in pain and silently swipes the front of his shirt, sending the lit cigarette to the ground. He pulls up his shirt revealing a fresh BURN MARK on his stomach.
MRS. HALPERN
How's my sweet girl? Awww, you need a change, don't you honey?
Mrs. Halpern picks her up and carries her to the house. AS the mother unlocks the front door to the house, the kids break into wide smiles of relief. But wait...
The mother remembers the mail and carries the baby back to the mailbox. Now  is the only one left still smiling.
MRS. HALPERN
You want to open the door, honey?
The baby fumbles with the mailbox's door handle for a moment -
ANGLE ON KIDS' FACES
BOOM!!!
The blast is deafening. , Kayleigh and  watch the results in stunned horror.

C'mon! Run!!
 and Kayleigh slowly back away in shock and begin to run a few steps when they realize that  isn't with them.

? Come on!
KAYLEIGH
Oh my God oh my God...
 doesn't seem to hear, his eyes fixated on the crimson road.  and  double back and grab him. They try to make him break out into a run, but 's feet drag limply against the ground. Both  and  grab an arm and begin to run with  through the woods.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 comes to. Lurches his body over the bed and vomits.
Sounds of squeaky bed springs fill the room. Looking sick and pale, he lifts his shirt to see a NEW SCAR from the cigarette burn.

What the hell?
In the next bed, Thumper's head, wrapped in a blanket, pops up from above a NAKED GESELA'S waist.
THUMPER
Christ, man. You wanna clean that up before I lose my appetite here?
 sits upright in bed and begins writing in the margins of the journal.
 DORM LOBBY - DAY
The lobby is decorated with colorful streamers, balloons, posters and banners announcing PARENTS' WEEKEND.
Carefree STUDENTS and their parents carry shopping bags toward the bustling elevators.  leans against the side of a pay phone, holding his ear to drawn out the noise.

Yes, hello, uh, Mrs. Kagan, this is  Treborn.
(rolling eyes)
I know. I'm sorry about that. But I really need to speak with him.
She's obviously hung up on him. Suddenly, a HAND grabs his shoulder. It's Professor Carter.
PROFESSOR CARTER
Whoa! Didn't mean to scare you, . Just wanted to know how the flatworms project was coming.

Oh, fine I guess. It's been kind of crazy lately with my mom coming up, so I haven't...
PROFESSOR CARTER
I know, I know. Who can think of worms when your libido's in full swing, right?  shrugs and forces a smile.
PROFESSOR CARTER
Just don't drop the ball, okay?

I won't let you down, Professor Carter.
Carter waves to another student and her parents and walks away.
 FANCY RESTAURANT - NIGHT
A waiter clears the dishes away from  and 's table.
REVEAL 
Her hair now has gray streaks. As she signs for the bill, she leans over and kisses  on the cheek.

Please, mom. People will talk.

I can't help it. I'm just so proud of you. You've got the highest grades in all of your classes.

Did Da - Jason - get good grades?

(smiling)
Please. He got straight A's without ever touching a book. That was the one area where his memory never failed him.

Ma? Did he ever say that he figured out a way to recall a lost memory years after he blacked it out for the first time?
's smile fades.

Why do you ask?

No, it's just weird with him being such a brain and all, I just wondered if he was ever able to remember stuff he'd forgotten.

When he was around your age...almost exactly your age. He said he figured out a trick to remember the past.
 tries not to react.

I couldn't tell if they were real memories or just phantoms. You know, he might only have thought he actually remembered them...

Sure...

And then, just before it got so bad that he had to be committed, he said that he could...

What? What could he do?
 shakes her head.

Forget it. It's nothing. He was far too sick by then.
 nods, but something gnaws beneath the surface.
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 hastily hunts through his journals, tearing up the room looking for a certain book. Thumper, lying on his bed, quietly watches  with growing concern.

(reading aloud)
I never wanted to be in the movie anyway and it was cold so I wanted to wear my clothes but  took his shirt off --
THUMPER
What the fuck are you doing?

Shhh! I need quiet for this.
Thumper jumps off the bed and snatches the journal away.
THUMPER
Are you stupid or what?

What?
THUMPER
Shucks, I dunno. But maybe there's a reason why you've repressed the one day when some old lecher had you in your tighty whities, dammit!
Thumper begins scanning the journal entry. A bitter laugh.
THUMPER
Yeah, man. I'd think twice about this. You could wake up a lot more fucked up than you are now.
He hands the journal back to .  opens it and begins reading it silently. His hands begin to tremble and he slams the book shut in defeat.
 'S CAR - COUNTRYSIDE - DAY
, looking haggard and frail, wipes the greasy hair from his eyes and punches the accelerator. His teeth are clenched and he hammers his fist on the dashboard.
DISSOLVE TO:
 RIDGEWOOD DINER - EVENING
 pulls into a parking lot of a country diner. He eyes a piece of paper with an address scrawled on it and gets out.
 RIDGEWOOD DINER - CONTINUOUS
A run-down greasy spoon. Filled with a number of TOWNIES and TRUCKERS. The place is stale with cigarette smoke and appears decorated in grime motif.
 is about to enter when he spots Kayleigh coming out of the kitchen with a tray full of food.
Kayleigh, now twenty, looks pale and sickly thin. She bangs her hip on the swinging door and an order of food crashes to the floor. Her BOSS stares back in aggravation.
BOSS
Can we get through one goddamned day without you breaking something?
Kayleigh's face turns beet red as she bends down to clean up the order. She is humiliated and  leans back against a pay phone so that she can't see him watching her.
As she brings the mess inside the kitchen, a CUSTOMER pinches her ass.  closely studies her reaction to the offense. She flinches uncomfortably but then composes a smile for the customer.  backs out uncomfortably.
 RIDGEWOOD DINER - NIGHT
Kayleigh struggles with the zipper of a shabby coat as she exits.  steps out of the shadows. She's startled at first, but eventually recognizes him. A smile flickers across her face and she allows herself to be hugged.
KAYLEIGH
God, ! I never thought I'd see you again. How've you been?

Oh, comme si, comme ca, you know...
KAYLEIGH
No, . I don't know. It's been a long time. Fill me in.

I'm going to State now. Things are going okay. I guess. Mom's good...
Kayleigh nods and they walk down the street. She reaches into her pocket, pulls out a pack of smokes.

(declining)
Not since we were kids.
KAYLEIGH
I've stopped a hundred times.

So how's ?
KAYLEIGH
(takes a long drag)
They kept him in juvy for a few years. Now he works over at Dale's Autobody.
 nods and scrutinizes her face with his next question.

You still live with your dad?
Her face is betrayed by a slight tick.
KAYLEIGH
No. I emancipated myself when I was fifteen.

Wow. That must've taken some courage.
KAYLEIGH
Not if you remember my dad.

Couldn't you have moved in with your mom?
KAYLEIGH
(shaking her head)
She had a new family. Not enough space for me. Said I should have moved in with her when we were kids. But...whatever.
They walk in silence for a moment.

Actually, Kayleigh, the reason I came back to town was to talk to you.
KAYLEIGH
(brightening)
Me? Are you kidding? Why?

Remember when I was a kid I had all these blackouts?
KAYLEIGH
Of course.

Well, lately some of the memories have begun to come back and I'd kinds like to talk to you about one of them in particular. It'd be a big help.
KAYLEIGH
Well, sure. I'll try to remember. Shoot.

When we were kids. Your dad was making a movie. Robin Hood or something?
KAYLEIGH
(cold)
What do you want to know, ?

It's just...did he...what happened in the basement?
KAYLEIGH
It was a long time ago.

I know, but...
KAYLEIGH
(cold)
Is that why you came all the way back? To ask a lot of stupid questions about Robin Hood?

No, but I think something really bad might've happened to us.
Kayleigh stops walking and crushes her cigarette.
KAYLEIGH
Is there a point to any of this?
's features shift from inquisitory to tenderness. He steps closer to Kayleigh and softly strokes her face. She flinches at first, but remains in the same spot.

Whatever happened, it wasn't our fault. You know we couldn't have stopped it.
Kayleigh begins to tremble. Tears flow.

Look, Kayleigh. This may sound like bullshit coming from a guy who hasn't spoken to you in seven years...
She moves her face away from his hand.

But you were seven years old and there's nothing you could've done to deserve...
Her face collapses and she turns away.
KAYLEIGH
(defeated)
Just shut up, . You're wasting your breath.

You can't hate yourself just because your dad's a twisted freak.
KAYLEIGH
Who are you trying to convince, ?! You come all the way out here to stir up my shit just because you had a bad memory!? You want me to cry on your shoulder and tell you that everything's all better now? Well fuck you, ! Nothing's gonna be all better! Okay?! Nothing ever gets better!
Kayleigh runs, stops and turns back to .
KAYLEIGH
If I was so wonderful, , why didn't you ever call me? Why'd you leave me here to rot?!
She turns and runs away.  looks sick with guilt.
 COLLEGE CAMPUS - QUAD - DAY - 2002
A few GREEKS play frisbee and talk trash. , tired and depressed, sits on the lawn nearby, fingering the new burn scar on his belly. Contemplating...
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 enters his dorm. He ignores Thumper, who sits on 's bed sucking furiously from a gurgling bong. He chokes out a message.
THUMPER
Some dude left a message for you.
 puts a towel under the door.

You can smell it all the way in the bathroom.
 hits "play" on the answering machine.
ANSWERING MACHINE
(male voice)
Hi, , this is Professor Carter. Just wondered why you didn't hand in your essay this afternoon. I was a bit concerned. Call me to schedule a make-up.
BEEP. Thumper offers  a magnified frown of disapproval.
ANSWERING MACHINE
(male voice)
What did you say to my sister motherfucker?! Last night she cried on the phone for over an hour to me.
(enraged breathing)
She said you came and saw her last night.
Thumper coughs accidentally, tips the bong over on 's bed. Reacting quickly, he grabs a towel from under the door and wipes off 's comforter.
ANSWERING MACHINE
(; cont'd)
She...she fucking killed herself tonight. She's dead.
(beat)
And so are you.
BEEP.  stares dumbstruck at the machine.
THUMPER
Whoa, bad news, bro. I don't think this is gonna come out.
DISSOLVE TO:
 CEMETERY - DAY
, dressed in black, gets out of his car at the edge of the cemetery. A small cluster of friends and family gather at the grave.  grabs a bouquet of roses and begins walking to the grave. When he suddenly spots  and .
's hands tense up into fists. He becomes weak in the knees and stops walking. After an uncomfortable moment of standing still, he retreats to his car and watches the ceremony from the driver's seat.
DISSOLVE TO:
 CEMETERY - DAY
The last of the mourners are filing away.  exits his car and walks to the deserted grave. He drops the roses on the casket and turns to make sure nobody is watching.
 reaches into his pocket and pulls out a sheet of paper. He unfolds it and leaves it on her gravesite:
'S DIARY
I'll come back for you.
 'S DORM - NIGHT
He makes a weighty decision and gets up. He hastily hunts through his journals, looking for a certain book.
 opens his journal marked "Age 7". He plops on his bed and starts writing sideways in the margins.
 (V.O.)
It's been said that a person's life is little more than the sum of his experiences. If that's true, then I'm not sure I know who I am anymore.
(beat)
I definitely never knew Kayleigh.
He turns the page and begins reading the journal. As he mouths the entry to himself, the resonance of an older man's voice seems to REVERBERATE throughout the room and the WORLD behind his head FAINTLY VIBRATES.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:  MILLER'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY 
 plays with his camera and the kids are excited about playing Robin Hood in a movie.

Shut up moron. Now get in your costume .
 slowly nods and begins to strip out of his clothes.  takes a quick peek at him.

I've got an idea. Let's go downstairs, it'll look more like a dungeon down there.
 MILLER'S BASEMENT - DAY 
 puts the camera on a tripod in the basement. Kayleigh and  sit on folding chairs in front of the camera.  stands at the top of the basement stairs, looking down.

(to )
What did I say about keeping that door closed, stupid?

But I wanna see!

You're gonna see my fist in about two seconds unless you do what I tell you.
 sulks and closes the door.  lowers his voice and speaks to  and Kayleigh.

Now in this part of the story, Robin Hood just married Maid Marian and they have to kiss and stuff like grown-ups do.
Kayleigh giggles and covers her mouth with her hand.  looks skeptical.

So take your clothes off Kayleigh.
Kayleigh stops giggling.  says nothing.

Come on, like when you take a bath. Don't make a deal out of it. You too, .
 gets behind the lens. The room is dead silent.

Let's go.
ANGLE ON 
Who silently opens the door at the top of the basement stairs and watches with horror.
's face is flushed with rage. He walks behind Kayleigh and cups his hands tightly around her ears. She can't hear anything now.

What time is it?

It's time for you to stand where the hell I told you.

Wrong answer, fuckbag. This is the very moment of your reckoning. In the next thirty seconds you're going to open one of two doors. The first door will forever traumatize your own flesh and blood.
The mature speech seems completely surreal coming from a seven-year old.  looks around the room as if he's the butt of some sick joke.

(stunned disbelief)
What's happened to -- How are you doing that?

(voice rising)
It'll change your daughter from a beautiful child into an empty shell whose only concept of trust was betrayed by her own sick pedophile father. Ultimately, it'll lead to her suicide. Nice work, daddy.

(hoarse whisper)
Who - who are you?
 impatiently waves the question.

Let's just say you're being closely watched, George. Your other option is to get your porn off the rack and treat Kayleigh like...oh, let's say like how a loving father treats his daughter. Sound okay to you, Papa?

(choking)
...yes.

Listen close then, fuckbag. You screw up again and I swear I'll flat out castrate you.
The impact of the last sentence isn't lost on .

One last thing.
 leans over to whisper in Kayleigh's ear. Kayleigh stares at the floor, then looks up at her father and shivers.
Kayleigh looks into 's eyes for support.  nods go on. His confidence brings a boldness to her lips.
KAYLEIGH
Don't you ever touch me again.

I - I won't.
Kayleigh summons her own new courage.
KAYLEIGH
I'm cold. And I'm putting on my clothes.
As he leaves to pick up her clothes,  grins.

What you need to do is discipline your son , because the kid's one sadistic pup.
Hiding at the top of the basement stairs,  recoils in horror and picks up one of his sister's dolls and begins twisting the head back and forth...
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 SORORITY BEDROOM - MORNING - 2002
A broad smile lines 's face as he slowly wakes up from his slumber. He suddenly grabs his head as if suffering from a pounding migraine.
MONTAGE OF SWIRLING MEMORIES
Quick cuts and flashes of  and Kayleigh growing older - she seems more carefree now, full of life and less-self conscious.
 'S HOUSE - DAY 
 pulls Kayleigh around in a little red wagon.
 FAMILY RESTAURANT - DAY 
 and Kayleigh play in a tub of balls in the playroom.
 PLAYGROUND - DAY 
Kayleigh pushes  on a tire swing.
 MULTIPLEX THEATER - NIGHT - 1995
, glaring at , thrashes the Teen Punk.
 JUNKYARD - DAY - 1995
Burning sack in flames.
 'S HOUSE - STREET - 1995
QUICK FLASH of the U-Haul driving away.
 BUS STATION - DAY - 1995
At thirteen, Kayleigh spunkily hops off a GREYHOUND BUS and runs into 's arms.
 'S NEW HOUSE - DAY - 1995
Still thirteen,  peddles his bike by his new house, Kayleigh riding on the handlebars.
More memory flashes of  and Kayleigh throughout the teen years, they grow up as lovers now:
 LAKE - DAY - 1997
 and Kayleigh have romantic picnic on a rowboat.
 HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL FIELD - SUNRISE - 2000
 and Kayleigh watch the sunrise after senior prom.
BACK TO:
 SORORITY BEDROOM - MORNING - 2002
Finally the memory assault is over.  groans in pain as blood trickles from his nose.
An arm reaches over and touches his shoulder.
KAYLEIGH (O.S.)
Honey, are you all right?
 whips around to see Kayleigh watching him. Not only is Kayleigh alive, but she's a ravishing beauty.
 lurches back from the shock of seeing Kayleigh and falls to the floor. She sees 's nose bleed and her eyes go wide.
KAYLEIGH
Oh my God, . You're bleeding! Look at you!
, still stunned, can do little but stare from the floor.

(transfixed by her)
Jesus, Kayleigh, you're...
(looks around)
Incredible.
KAYLEIGH
(purring)
Mmmm... You' give good compliment. Clean up and come back to bed.
He stands in the middle of her bedroom, surrounded by sorority plaques and pink preppy decor.
, hardly able to take his eyes off her as she hands him a tissue. He reaches for his clothes at the foot of the bed and comes up with a Greek-lettered fraternity sweatshirt and brown suede jacket.

Where...where are my clothes?
KAYLEIGH
Those are your clothes, silly.
 frowns with distaste, grabs a towel and heads out.
WE FOLLOW HIM INTO:
 SORORITY BATHROOM - MORNING
At the sink,  washes the blood off his face and looks at his reflection in the mirror. A nearby shower SHUTS OFF.

This is too amazing! Un-fucking-real!
WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)
I wish I could get so excited about a nose bleed.
 turns around and sees Gwen, one of the sorority brats from the bar, exit the shower naked.

Whoops. Sorry. My bad.
 blushes and turns back to the mirror through which Gwen dries herself with a towel while staring flirtatiously back at .

Hey, you were with those assholes who threw popcorn at Thumper.
 holds his temple in pain as another memory comes to him.

And your name is...Gwen!
GWEN
Seriously, . Lay off the blow.
She pats his ass and exits the bathroom.
 COLLEGE - QUAD - DAY - 2002
Kayleigh, wearing a long skirt and tight red sweater, catches the eye of every guy on campus. She and  stroll arm in arm through the quad.
Somehow, the world seems brighter now. Even the colors seem more vibrant when compared to the somewhat grimmer world we've known.
MANY STUDENTS wave to  and call his name. He can't remember all their names but it's kinda cool being the BMOC.
 takes a long look at her and becomes curious.

Hey, uh, don't go freaking out on me over this, but do you remember when your dad first got his video camera?
KAYLEIGH
Well I remember he had one...but he, like, put it away after the first day. Why would that freak me out?

I dunno.
(goofy smile)
Just being weird.
Kayleigh playfully sweeps her leg around to kick him on the ass, then smiles as if a ghost must have done it.
KAYLEIGH
Such a goofus. See you tonight.
Kayleigh gives him a big unexpected kiss and walks away. After a moment of wow,  runs off to class himself.
 DORM LOBBY - DAY
 inserts his last quarter into the lobby pay phone and dials a telephone number.

(to himself)
Come on, Mom, be there!
ANSWERING MACHINE
('s voice)
,
('s voice)
,
(a strange, older man's voice)
And Chuck
(all three)
Aren't home right now. You know what to do.

(off-guard)
Hi, Mom and, uh, Chuck. Just calling to say hi and well, call me.
 hangs up the phone, then checks his watch. No, wrist. At that moment, Thumper passes  in the lobby.

Thumper! What time is it, man?
Thumper eyes this strange preppy kid with distaste.
THUMPER
Whasamatter? Lost your Rolex?

Huh?
THUMPER
Fuck off, frat boy.
Thumper walks away, leaving  dumbfounded.
 COLLEGE CLASSROOM - DAY
 runs into the lecture hall and gets in line behind other STUDENTS who are taking No. 2 pencils from a box on Professor Carter's desk.
 hears PEOPLE he cannot see calling his name. Somehow, it's more creepy than cool. The Professor makes a loud announcement.
PROFESSOR CARTER
Remember, everyone! Only two weeks until your science projects are due.

(quietly)
I still owe you an essay from last week. Is there any way I could get an extension?
PROFESSOR CARTER
And you are...?

(disappointed)
 Treborn.
PROFESSOR CARTER
The answer's 'no', Mr. Treborn. Now take a seat. The exam's about to begin.
 walks up the aisle and takes a seat. As he sits down, someone puts his ARM menacingly around 's throat.
 flinches, turns around and sees Hunter, the frat guy Thumper assaulted the other night at Dirty Hank's bar.

Leave me alone, asshole. I didn't lay a hand on you, okay?
Hunter bursts out laughing.
HUNTER
, you're hysterical. You study for this?

(awkward)
We'll find out soon enough.
HUNTER
(laughing)
Me neither.
Hunter surreptitiously hands  a cheat-sheet to the exam. 's face brightens.

You're kidding. Are these the answers?!
HUNTER
Damn, , on the D.L.

(holding it lower)
Thanks. Wow. Hey, I want to do something really special for Kayleigh tomorrow. If I said I needed some help from you and the brothers...
HUNTER
I'd say blow me. Get the pledges to do it.
 nods and smiles as exams are passed down his row.
 SORORITY BEDROOM - NIGHT
 and Kayleigh have just finished having sex. She seems incredibly satisfied, but he looks slightly uncomfortable.
KAYLEIGH
Oh my God, that was good. Where'd you learn all those new tricks/

So it didn't feel...weird?
KAYLEIGH
Yeah, if you call multiple orgasms weird.
She giggles and snuggles into him. He's grateful for her affection, but still looks uneasy. The PHONE RINGS and he automatically answers it.

Yellow.
Silence on the other end. More silence.
KAYLEIGH
Fuck 'em.
As  hangs up, he and Kayleigh share a giggle and he resumes snuggle position.

What do you think it is about us that makes us so perfect? Like, looking back, whatever gave you the nerve to sneak out and visit me after I moved away?
KAYLEIGH
(laughs)
As if my dad could've stopped me from seeing you. What's he gonna do to me?  smiles to himself. And hugs her tighter.

You think we'll always be together?
For the first time she looks at him with concern.
KAYLEIGH
That is the plan, right? Hell or high water?
He's in heaven, but plays it cool.

Just making sure.
DISSOLVE TO:
 FRAT HOUSE - FRONT LAWN - DAY
The pledges of Theta Chi busily gather around , their clothes covered in dirt, food and what might be vomit.
, now dressed like his usual self, bangs a wooden spoon on a metal salad bowl that a poor THETA CHI PLEDGE wears as a hat.

Order, order. So all you rushes know what you've got to do for me?
THETA CHI PLEDGE
(correcting him)
Pledges, Sir Brother , Sir.

Pledges, rushees, same difference. Now this is a one-time deal. You do all this for me and I'll never give you shit again. Promise.
A buzz of excitement runs through the pledges.
DISSOLVE TO:
 FRAT HOUSE - ATTIC HALL - NIGHT
It's peaceful now.  covers Kayleigh's eyes with his hands as he leads her through the attic hallways. Both are dressed to the nines.
KAYLEIGH
I don't understand, where are you taking me?

You'll see.
 FRAT HOUSE - ROOF - CONTINUOUS The wooden door to the rooftop swings open, revealing Kayleigh and . Kayleigh is dazzled by what she sees:
The entire roof is decorated with fairy-lights, Chinese lanterns and hundreds upon hundreds of candles. And elegant romantic table for two awaits them, flanked by twelve FORMALLY DRESSED SERVANTS (previously seen pledges) who respectfully stare ahead with the utmost class.
Two pledges immediately pull out two chairs and stand by. Kayleigh applauds and laughs with delight.
KAYLEIGH
I don't know what to say. It's beautiful.

Go on. Sit down.
AS she takes a step toward the table - FLOWER PETALS shower down on her. She looks up to see TWO MORE PLEDGES standing on ladders, delicately tossing pedals.
Kayleigh looks overwhelmed as she sits down.
KAYLEIGH
Why are you doing all this for me?

Simple math. When I woke up this morning and saw your smile... I knew that I wanted to spend the rest of my life with you.
Her hand reaches out to his and grabs it fiercely. Her eyes tell him she feels the same way. A magical moment.
And they lean into each other for a kiss so enchanted it might as well be their first ever --
Hunter bolts up the stairs, two at a time.
HUNTER
We been lookin' all over for you, man.
SENIOR BROTHER
Someone trashed your car.
The moment's gone.  and Kayleigh exchange worried looks.
 FRAT HOUSE - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS
 runs down the front lawn to his car, the Honda parked at the bottom of the hill. His face collapses.
's car has been trashed and is surrounded by broken glass. The seats and tires have been slashed, the hood has bee mysteriously yanked off and the steering wheel sits on the roof.
The most unnerving thing, however, is a SPIKED LEATHER DOG COLLAR hangs off the rearview mirror.
By now a crowd has gathered.  runs up to people.

(panicked)
Did you see who did this? You see anyone?
No one will answer with anything more than a shrug.
HUNTER
Probably them Pika fuckers.
But Kayleigh knows better. She stares at the collar.

How could he get away with this? Right in front of the goddamn frat house!
A SENIOR BROTHER angrily calls him from the lawn.
SENIOR BROTHER
Frat house? Hey man, would you call your "country" a "cunt"?
Kayleigh shudders and  puts his arms around her.
KAYLEIGH
Don't. He's probably watching.
 FRAT HOUSE - 'S BEDROOM - NIGHT
 leads Kayleigh into his bedroom and shuts the door.  can't help but look under the bed. No one. He then locks the door, reaches into his desk and finds a tiny canister of Pepper Spray.
KAYLEIGH
It's my fault. I should have told you he was released a few weeks ago.

Might'a been nice.
(re: pepper spray)
Like this is gonna do any good. Maybe one of the frat guys has a gun.
KAYLEIGH
Please, . Don't even joke. He wouldn't hurt you. He's just trying to scare you away from me.

(shaking the cannister)
Yeah, right. Tell that to Crockett.
KAYLEIGH
(quietly)
It's not his fault, . You knew how bad he had it when we were kids.

Don't give me this Oprah-book club bad upbringing shit, because you turned out fine.
KAYLEIGH
(quietly)
My father never laid a hand on me. It's like the prick saved it all up for .
 sits in silence for a moment, contemplating this. Kayleigh's eyes plead for him to have compassion.

Fine, then. We'll let campus security deal with him.
 COLLEGE QUAD - NIGHT
Kayleigh and  walk through the all-but-deserted campus.  seems especially paranoid. In the distance, some guy vomits loudly.
KAYLEIGH
Are you okay?

What do you mean?
KAYLEIGH
It's just...you've been acting kinda strange, you know?

Like how?
KAYLEIGH
I don't know. You seem...different. You make weird jokes. Your accents changed. You don't even walk the same.

I walk differently?
KAYLEIGH
I can't put my finger on it, but everything's a bit off. Even the dinner tonight. It was beautiful, but...

I know I've been actin strange lately. It's just that... I don't want anything to happen to us.
The guy along the path gags loudly into the bushes. Kayleigh and  instinctively avert their eyes. Suddenly, Kayleigh's ears perk and she stops walking mid-stride.
KAYLEIGH
Wait. Something's not right. Isn't that your jacket?

What?
The guy, wearing 's brown suede jacket, suddenly springs to his feet, revealing his face for the first time.
KAYLEIGH
.
 has grown in the last seven years. He has long, greasy hair and some tattoos. He holds a TIRE THUMPER (a short, steel bat for truckers) menacingly in his right hand.
 stands frozen in fear, his hands rooted in his coat pockets.

Leave us alone you sick fuck!

Get this "us" shit. As if I was gonna lay a hand on my own sister. You've done nicely for yourself, . Nice friends, nice life, not to mention you're fucking my sister. Not a bad piece of ass if I say so myself.
KAYLEIGH
Shut up, !

Aw, hey now, that was a compliment.
 takes a few practice swings with the tire thumper.

What the hell are you doing?

It wasn't enough that the whole world loves you, but you had to take away the last person on earth who didn't think I was a piece of shit.

(suppressing panic)
No one thinks you're a piece of shit, .

Right, . I believe you just said "sick fuck."
 rushes  and bashes him with the tire thumper in the shoulder and ribs.  goes down. As  prepares to bash his brains in,  whips out the Pepper Spray and nails  in the face.
 reels back in pain, covering his eyes with this free hand.  struggles to his feet and circles around , keeping a distance as he douses  with Pepper Spray. Kayleigh screams.  blindly stumbles around, madly swinging the tire thumper.  charges forward in an uncontrollable rage, rips the weapon out of 's hands and sprays a lethal does of pepper spray into 's open mouth.
KAYLEIGH
, stop! You're gonna kill him!

He's a fucking maniac!
 knocks  down with the tire thumper. Kayleigh screams and tries to hold  back, but he easily wrestles free of her. She runs to a blue streetlight on the quad.

He ruined 's life --
 kicks  hard in the ribs. Kayleigh pushes a button on the "Blue Light" lamp post and an ALARM WAILS.

He killed Crockett --
(kicks him)
Murdered that woman and her baby!
(kicks again)
And he's trying to kill me, Kayleigh! He's trying to fucking kill me!
 raises the tire thumper for a final attack and swings down OFF CAMERA. CRUNCH!
 sees what he's done and drops the weapon, horrified. Kayleigh sees what 's done to her brother. And stops cold when she sees the damage to .
 rushes toward her and she stumbles backwards, still terrified by his rage, and skitters away from him in a crablike fashion.
SIRENS come racing to the quad.  looks away from 's limp body. Collapses to the ground and begins to weep.
DISSOLVE TO:
 MAVIS PENITENTIARY - DAY
A SECURITY VEHICLE pulls through the ominous metal gates of the large state prison. The vehicle stops and , along with nine other convicts, exit in leg and hand restraints.
 MAVIS PENITENTIARY - DAY
, now wearing his standard issue inmate uniform, enters the General Population area of the prison. PRISONERS begin screaming vicious taunts and catcalls at the fresh batch of new inmates.  tries to keep composed and walks toward his cell.
 looks up to see one of the men leaning over the second tier, KARL, a huge muscular con with tattoos of swastikas and other Nazi symbols on his arm, blows a kiss at  and winks.
 'S CELL - DAY
 enters a dimly lit cell plastered with pictures of Jesus Christ and various Saints. Burning flames on open cans of shoe polish serve as candles to the large shrine.
There is a stained bare mattress on the top bunk. Sitting on the bottom bunk is CARLOS, 30s, a massive Hispanic convict covered with faded Indian ink jail tats of Christ in agony.
Carlos stares at  disinterestedly as  makes up his bed on the top bunk.
CARLOS
First time?
 nods glumly.
CARLOS
Best not bitch up. Wind up someone's luggage that way.

(desperate)
Can you protect me?
CARLOS
Jesus himself couldn't make me take on the Brotherhood. When they come, just put your mind in another place, man. Be somewhere else.
A BUZZER SOUNDS. Carlos leaves the cell without another word.
 PRISON CAFETERIA - EVENING
 sets his tray down at a table filled with Carlos and some other INMATES. No sooner has he sat down to eat, do eager forks reach onto his tray and steal his food. Carlos shrugs at  and offers him a roll.
 MAVIS VISITING CHAMBER - DAY
 sits across from  in the visitor's chamber. Her hair is now bottle-blonde. Four inches of Plexiglas separate the two and they talk on monitored phones. , frazzled, twirls an unlit cigarette.

...I spoke to your new lawyer about the appeal. HE's sure he can get you off on self- defense, so if you're patient.

How long will I be in here?

I don't know. These things take time.

How's Kayleigh doing? She all right?
's look tells him to look for hope elsewhere.

What about my journals, Mom? Did you bring the ones I asked for?
 nods, holding up two comp books. "AGE 7" and "AGE 13".

I found these. The others are still in storage.

Damn it, Mom. I told you I need them all!

Fine. You'll get them, . But I think it's far more important to focus on your case right now.
 looks as if he's about to disagree with her, but he closes his mouth and placates her.

Sure, Mom. You're right. Just try to tell Kayleigh I'm sorry.
And officer signals  and points to his watch.

I'm not gonna lose you, kiddo. Promise me you'll hang on, Ev.
They look at each other and  slowly lowers the phone. He hangs up,  still pressing her phone to her ear.
 MAVIS PENITENTIARY - DAY
 walks closely behind Carlos through a corridor, clutching his journals. As he passes Karl, the Neo-Nazi, Karl reaches over and firmly grabs 's crotch.
, totally violated, turns white with rage.
KARL
Shit on my dick or blood on my knife.
 stands there, stunned, unable to react when --
Another Neo-Nazi, RICK, swats 's journals out of his hands and onto the floor. Life springs back into  as he rushes for the journals. He and Rick grab the journals at the same time. A minor tug of war.

Let go! They're mine!
Rick tears them away,  coming up with only a few torn pages.  sees the damage and goes mental.

Motherfucker!
 swings at Rick and misses. INMATES CHEER! It's on! Rick lunges for , a brief and painful scuffle ensues, the journals getting trampled. Suddenly -- The sounds of COCKED RIFLES echo through the air. The fight stops instantly as Rick and  look up to see --
ANGLE ON
OFFICER STATION. Officers aim rifles at the pair. From an upper tier, even more officers with more rifles.
Their barrels sight directly at . Rick steps away, quick to maliciously scoop up 's torn journals.
KARL
We'll be comin' for you tonight, sister.
 catches his breath, then looks at the remaining few pages on the floor.
 'S CELL - DAY
 enters the cell with a few entry pages. HE looks through them. Nothing there.
 nods depressed, then sees the page from his "Age 7" journal, grabs Carlos' duct tape and tapes the page over his bed.
 PRISON CORRIDOR - DAY
, walking toward some White Supremacists, flinches whenever the occasional INMATE brushes against him.  is completely paranoid, waiting for an inevitable attack.
Karl makes himself visible among them, holding a journal. He reads:
KARL
(from 's journal)
Today I found my grandfather's death certificate. HE died in a nut house, just like my father. Mom denies it, but she thinks I'm gonna end up the same way...
The other Supremacists start laughing and calling "looney" and "nut job."  rushes past them and they make chicken clucks at him.
 PRISON YARD - DAY
 and Carlos sit on BLEACHERS that overlook the other prisoners working out.
 closely watches Karl and Rick who stare daggers at him from across the yard. A SKINHEAD PASSES SOMETHING with a white-taped handle to Karl but no officers seem to notice.
 slides closer to Carlos and stares at the Jesus Christ tattoos all over Carlos' back.

You're religious Carlos, you believe that bit about "the Lord works in mysterious ways?"
CARLOS
Straight up.

Because I think he sent me to your cell on purpose. For you to help me.
CARLOS
Shit. I knew you were crazy.

I ain't bullshitting. Jesus speaks to me in my dreams.
Carlos scoffs whatever.

Pack of smokes says I can prove it to you.
Carlos is suddenly interested.
 'S CELL - LATER
 holds a tattered journal entry in his hand and finishes up a conversation. Carlos looks dumbfounded.

So when I'm out, I need you to watch my face and hands closely.
CARLOS
You need to see the prison shrink, man.
Their conversation stops when a convict rolls a mail cart by,  looking up expectantly.

Anything today?
CONVICT
Yep. Just not for you.
Disappointed,  turns back to Carlos. Holds up his journal entry.

Just tell me if anything weird happens.
CARLOS
Weirder than this?

Marks, scars, I dunno. Anything could happen I guess.
 studies the page.
JOURNAL ENTRY
On Wednesday I got in trouble for a drawing that I didn't do. Mommy wont let me see it.
Then as he starts reading it to himself, the bars behind him almost imperceptibly VIBRATE --
SMASH CUT TO:
 FIRST GRADE CLASSROOM - DAY 
, seven, COMES TO in an old familiar place. WE are back in 's first grade class. All of the children draw colorful pictures.
 sees some paper spindles sitting on 's desk. AS he heads over to them,  firmly grabs his shoulders and steers him back to his own desk.

No monkey business, . Sit still and finish your drawing.
, defeated, looks over at his blank piece of paper. HE smiles mischievously, and grabs some colored pencils.

That's great everyone! Just imagine anything you want to be. There are no limits.
Soon enough, an image emerges:  holding a knife, stands over a heap of several dead inmates Karl and Rick.
When done, he sneaks over to 's desk, where the two paper spindles sit. The metal needles reach up and skewer a number of paper notes and messages.  looks over to see  holding up his drawing, horrified.

(musically)
Oh, lllllll?
She looks over in time to see  using all of his seven-year old strength to WHIP his hands down toward the spindles!
The moment before his palms reach them there's a brief instant where SOUNDSCAPES COLLIDE and the world behind him VIBRATES.
AND WE'RE BACK TO:
 'S PRISON CELL - DAY - 2002
 comes to as ECHOES OF SCREAMING CHILDREN FADE. Alertness slowly creeps back up on him as he hears:
CARLOS
Oh sweet Jesus. It's true. It's a miracle! A miracle!
 looks up to see Carlos staring at him with reverence.
CARLOS
Your hands. The stigmata!
 looks to see two scars in the center of each palm.

What did you see? What did it look like?
CARLOS
(laughing)
Signs of the Lord. They just appeared out of nowhere. I thought you were loco!

So you believe me?
Carlos simply stares at him, awestruck, and hands over a box of cigarettes.
 KARL'S CELL - CONTINUOUS
 nervously approaches. A CREW of Aryans block his path.

I want to make a deal.
The Aryans laugh, make discrete eye contact with Karl, who grins and signals to let  pass.
 KARL'S CELL - CONTINUOUS
Karl and Rick wait expectantly as  nervously enters. They say nothing, relishing the fearful silence.

Look. I'm new to all this but I think I get how things work. You gotta join a gang or else end up dead meat.
They continue to stare.

Well it sure ain't gonna fucking be with no niggers or spics. So how do we do this? You gotta work your way up, and I'm the new guy.
(looking ill)
So...should I...I mean, do I suck your dicks right now?
Karl and Rick exchange looks.
KARL
Is your blood pure?

(angry)
I ain't no fucking kike if that's what you mean.
Rick stands. All muscle.
RICK
Let's see what you got. And watch the fucking teeth or you'll be leaving without 'em.
 nods reluctantly and peacefully drops to his knees. Karl and Rick lower their pants to their ankles.  looks miserable, about to do the deed when --
CARLOS
Bulldozes past the Aryans into the room, slamming Karl into the wall and jamming a shank into Karl's crotch!
Rick instantly charges Carlos, but trips on the pants around his ankles. , anticipating Rick's fall, stomps Rick's face before snatching his journals from Karl's shelf.
 frantically flips through them, hunting for something, as the other WHITE SUPREMACISTS charge the cell.

Carlos!
Carlos drops Karl's writhing body to the floor and presses his girth against the cell door.
 locates an entry and concentrates on the words just as the other supremacists force the door open --
 focuses on the words. Chanting quickly.

We took the woods behind the junkyard just to make sure we wouldn't bump into . We hadn't seen the smoke yet.
WORDS from the entry begin to SHIMMER. REVERBERANT SOUNDS OF BARKING break the sound barrier and the image of Aryans storming the cell behind him become a frenetic blur -
SMASH CUT TO:
 JUNKYARD WOODS - DAY - 1995
, thirteen again, comes to in the woods.  stumbles at first, then rights himself. He seems strangely exhilarated. A sinister victory smile.

Rot in hell you fucking animals.
Kayleigh and , walking by his side, do a double take.  shrugs "just kidding" and looks around, getting his bearings. He whips his hand out and stops them.

Wait. Before we --
He suddenly notices Kayleigh who now no longer looks an awkward and unkempt tomboy, but rather a vibrant and feminine young girl. Whereas her clothes were loose and unflattering before, she is now radiant and wears fashionable styles.
 remembers his mission and darts over to a JUNK PILE.

We need something to cut open the sack!
Kayleigh and  stare at him, concerned for his sanity.
 roots through the trash until he finds something: a razor sharp piece of metal about two feet long.  offers it to .

I want you to take this, . Today's your day of atonement. I know how guilty you feel about that woman and her baby --
KAYLEIGH
. Stop it. It's not the time.

(frantic)
Now's the only time!
(to )
Today you get a chance to redeem yourself. Start over with a clean slate. Tabula rasa --

What are you talking about?
KAYLEIGH
You're acting crazy!

(desperate; to )
Please. If you've ever trusted me before, trust me on this one.
 places the metal shard in 's hand.

Cut the rope.
 slowly follows  as he bolts away.
 JUNKYARD - LATER
 groans on the ground, writhing. 's voice hitches, eyes watering from pent up frustration.

Listen to me good, ...

I'll do whatever you want. You don't want me to ever see Kayleigh again, fine. Just let Crockett go. Besides, you kill him now and they'll stick you in juvy for sure. And I know you'd never leave your sister alone with your father.
's words hit home and 's anger slowly dissipates. A look of understanding passes between them. Gratitude, even.
 looks at the sack and begins to untie it.  comes screaming from nowhere like a bat out of hell! With all of the force he can muster, he jams the metal shard all the way through 's throat!
 clutches his throat, gagging in blood.  surveys the scene in shock:

Oh fuck, , no!
 drops to the floor, Indian style, wipes the dirt in his hands and freezes up completely. Kayleigh wakes up and SCREAMS when she sees blood spurt from 's throat.
Meanwhile, Crockett escapes from the sack.
'S POV
, silhouetted by the sky, seems to vibrate violently as if operating a jack-hammer.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 COLLEGE - 'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002
 comes to in a familiar place. His original college dorm - ONLY BACKWARDS.

Christ. Help me.
He sits upright in bed and takes in his surroundings. When suddenly,  clutches his head in severe pain.
A MONTAGE OF IMAGES ASSAULT HIM:
 SORORITY BEDROOM - DAY
Color memories of Kayleigh's sorority fade to BLACK and WHITE and dissipate.
 FRAT HOUSE - NIGHT - 2002
Memories of 's vandalized car fade to BLACK and WHITE and dissipate.
 PENITENTIARY - DAY - 2002
The faces of Karl and Rick all turn grainy...
 COLLEGE - 'S DORM - DAY - 2002
As new images of THUMPER become more BRILLIANT.
 SUNNYVALE - PADDED ROOM - DAY - 1005
A new image overwhelms the others: , 13, with dark, soulless eyes wearing a straight-jacket in a padded room.
BACK TO :
 'S DORM - DAY - 2002
's eyes roll back in his head. He shakes uncontrollably and blood pours from his nose.
Thumper opens the door, sees  convulsing and jumps back in horror. He scans the hallways for assistance.
THUMPER
Someone call 9-1-1!
 SUNNYVALE LABORATORY - DAY
 lies on an examining table undergoing another series of CAT-scans. The machines are now state of the art and the lab room has been redecorated.
 'S OFFICE - DAY
 nervously chews her fingernails as she watches  post CAT-scan results on the light box. A young nurse pushes , in a wheelchair, into the doctor's office.

Okay, doc. What's the damage? How much time have I got?

Cute, .

It's a little complicated. I haven't seen results exactly like these before.

Are you sure? Not even with my father?
 and  exchange looks.

Actually, these tests weren't available twenty years ago.

So what did you find.
 points to the CAT-scan slides, specifically, to the outer lining of 's brain.

This is where we're finding most of the hemorrhaging. The outer lining of the cerebral cortex.

(nonplussed)
Lemme guess. Would that be where the memories are stored?
 stares ahead. Transfixed by the slides.

I've never seen anything like this. I've compared these to the ones taken last year, and there's evidence of severe hemorrhaging and massive neural reconstruction.
 stares at him blankly.  impatiently "pops wheelies" in the wheel chair.

What does that mean for ?

(to )
He's saying it's like forty years worth of new memories have been jammed in my brain since last year. Overload city. 'Sat about the gist of it, doc?
 nods, awed by 's effortless interpretation.  springs out of the wheelchair and stretches his legs.

(to )
Mind if I wait in the car? The lighting here bugs my eyes.
 nods.  shakes 's hand.

Well, it's nice seeing you again. But you know, people to see, things to read...
 shoots  an apologetic look.  heads out the door, accidentally knocking 's jacket to the floor. He shrugs apologetically and re-hangs it.
 SUNNYVALE CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS
Outside the office,  inspects 's KEYS and attached SECURITY CARD and smiles.  covertly winds himself through the maze of corridors, careful not to be seen by the staff.
He finally sees a wing marked "CRIMINALLY INSANE".  look around to make certain he's not being watched, then uses the security card to open the door. He looks in every room of the wing until he finds --
 SUNNYVALE - 'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
 unlocks the door and is moved by what he sees.
 is strapped onto a metal bed, his arms and legs in tight leather restraints. The dark five o'clock shadow and his malicious grin radiate evil. His black and haunting eyes personify hate and murderous intent.
 seems neither surprised or happy to see . That is, if he's aware of 's presence at all...

Is there anything you need? Anything I can get you?
Nothing from .

What about the models, man? Bet I can get you a shitload of models up in here.
Still nothing. Not even a glance in his direction.  sighs and gives up.

Okay, . Just wanted to say "hi".
 turns around to leave.

You knew the whole time, didn't you?
( spins around)
When you put the blade in my hand, you knew something big was going to happen. Didn't you?!

(jaw dropped)
Y...yes. I guess I did.
's eyes seethe with hate.

Then you should be where I am. You should be where I am.
 backs away, face guilt-stricken.
 'S DORM - DAY
 enters his dormroom (where everything's backwards), reaches under his bed and is relieved to find the journal marked "AGE 7".
 COLLEGE QUAD - DAY
 is ignored by several Theta Chi pledges as he plops himself by a tree and hunts through his journal to find the entry from when he was seven and visited Jason at Sunnyvale.
JOURNAL ENTRY
Today I get to mete my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy. I hope he lets me call him dad.
 takes a calming breath and begins reading.

(as if reciting a mantra)
Today I get to meet my father. His name is Jason and he is crazy...
 gets some strange looks, but continues. As he does, the trees and frisbee-playing students behind him VIBRATE and SHUDDER.
SMASH CUT TO:
 SUNNYVALE VISITOR'S CHAMBER - DAY 
Seven-year old  comes to during the time he first met his father, Jason. Jason waits patiently for young  to finish his sentence.
JASON
Are you okay? You looked like you were somewhere else for a second there.

Look, Jason, I need some fast answers if I'm ever gonna fix what I've done.
Jason is completely thrown.
JASON
I was praying this curse would have ended with me.

But it didn't. And now I need info to make things right again and you're the only one who can give it to me.
JASON
(frustrated)
There is no "right". When you change who people are, you destroy who they were.

Who's to say you can't make things better?
Jason seems extremely upset to hear  say this.
JASON
You can't play God, son. It must end with me. Just by being here, you may be killing your mother.

Bullshit. I'll send you a postcard when I've made everything perfect again.
Jason launches himself across the table, shackles and all, and grabs hold of 's throat.
'S POV
As Jason looks down at us, frothing at the mouth, there's a trick of the light where Jason's head seems to VIBRATE against the ceiling.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 COLLEGE QUAD - DAY - 2002
's hands instinctively reach for his throat, then he realizes his surroundings. Heartbroken, he shuts the journal and stands up shakily.
 RIDGEWOOD DINER - EARLY EVENING
 eats in the same diner where Kayleigh used to work. As he eats, his arm sits in front of his plate, protectively. Guarding his food.
WAITRESS
Just get out, didja?

Huh?
WAITRESS
(re: his arm)
Nothing. Just that my brother did a stint in the pen and he used to eat like that.

(defensively)
I come from a big family.
WAITRESS
Meant no offense.

None taken. Hey, uh, does Kayleigh Miller still work here?
WAITRESS
(confused)
Sorry. Never heard of her.
 MILLER HOUSE - EVENING
 slowly walks up the driveway, which is now a dilapidated mess. Garbage litters the front lawn and paint chips rot off the sides of the house. Inside,  yells at someone.
 (O.S.)
Just shut the hell up already! Can't a man get a little goddman peace in his own home!
( rings doorbell)
Oh, for Christ's sake, now what?
 opens the door and sees .

Don't suppose you're here to sell cookies?
In a blur,  grabs 's shirt and violently shoves him through the house and into a wall.

Good guess, fuckbag.
(off Miller's startled face)
Remember me now? We had a great chat once when I was seven.
 goes slack, his eyes wide with horror.

One question, fuckbag. Where can I find your daughter?
 SEEDY HOTEL - NIGHT
 walks past some junkies and enters.
 SEEDY HOTEL - CONTINUOUS
 steps over some passed out bodies that litter the hallway of an incredibly seedy motel. The kind with hourly rates. He knocks on a door.
Kayleigh, now haggard, strung-out junkie, opens the door and immediately the contempt for  grows in her eyes. She puts out an expression of disappointment.
KAYLEIGH
Oh, I thought you were my eight o'clock. Make it fast, I'm expecting someone.

Nice to see you, too. Can I come in?
She looks around, waves him in.
KAYLEIGH
If I knew you were coming I'd have cleaned the stains off the sheets.
 KAYLEIGH'S SEEDY HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS
The room is dirty and sparse, excepting charred-bottom spoons, yellowed cotton balls and brown-spotted squares of tin foil.  doesn't hesitate to sit on the "soiled" bed.
KAYLEIGH
What do you want?
 can't speak. His eyes begin to water.

I just needed to see...a friendly face.
His sincerity touches her.
KAYLEIGH
Well, time is money, . So you...
 reaches for his wallet and throws it on her dresser. Kayleigh eyes the wallet. But makes no move to pick it up.
KAYLEIGH
Well, I guess I can spare ten minutes for an old friend, right?
Tears fall freely from 's eyes.
KAYLEIGH
So how's tricks? Sorry, occupational humor.

I get it. You can drop it now.
KAYLEIGH
(angry again)
Oh, I'm sorry. Does my line of work make you uncomfortable, precious?

No. Just that you need to hurt me with it. I've been where you've been
KAYLEIGH
Ha! Where's that?

The bottom. When you're just a piece of meat waiting for the next attack.
Kayleigh watches  silently.
KAYLEIGH
What's happened to you?

You wouldn't believe me. I mean, people always say, "You wouldn't believe me", but in this case, it's not even worth trying.
KAYLEIGH
I've seen some sickening shit. I don't blink twice anymore, especially in your case.

Why's that?
KAYLEIGH
Because you're...different.

Different? How?
KAYLEIGH
Let me ask you a question. Just a little one that's been gnawing at me for years.

Yeah?
KAYLEIGH
On the bridge. How did you know that  had your dog? That was no fucking hunch.

Do you remember when I was a kid and I had those blackouts?
 continues and Kayleigh listens with a mixture of intense interest and matched skepticism.
DISSOLVE TO LATER:
 DINER - NIGHT
Kayleigh finishes a plateful of food at a busy diner. She lights up an after-dinner smoke.
KAYLEIGH
You're right, , I don't believe you.

I never thought you would. That's why I've never bothered to tell a soul until now, and why I never will again.
KAYLEIGH
I'm the only person you've told? That's a great line. Does that make other girls swoon? Do they actually eat up this bullshit?

I couldn't give a shit if you believe me or not, and frankly I'm too tired to prove it to you.
KAYLEIGH
Oh? There's proof now?

(tired)
Shit. I dunno. How would I know about the twin moles on your inner thigh?
KAYLEIGH
Anyone with fifty bucks could tell you that.

Then forget that. How about...you prefer the smell of a skunk to flowers, you hate cilantro because for reasons unknown to you, it reminds you of your step-sister.
Kayleigh's jaw drops.

Oh! And when you orgasm, your toes go numb. I'm sure your clientele aren't privy to that one.
Kayleigh tries to conceal the surprise in her eyes.

I just thought you should know.
KAYLEIGH
Know what?

That I didn't leave you there to rot.
Kayleigh flinches as if her should had been invaded, then her eyes fill with distrust and contempt.
KAYLEIGH
There's one major hole in your story.

Which is?
KAYLEIGH
There is no fuckin' way on this planet or any other that I was in some fuckin' sorority.
She opens 's wallet and leaves a twenty on the table.
KAYLEIGH
Sure you don't want your wallet?

Don't think I'll need it where I'm going.
KAYLEIGH
Off to change everyone's life again, is that it? Maybe this time you'll pop up in some mansion while I wind up in Tijuana doing the donkey act.

I'm over it. Whenever I try to help anyone it all turns to shit.
KAYLEIGH
Well, don't give up now, Slick. You've already done so much for me. Hell, why don't you go back in time and save Mrs. Halbern and her baby. Then maybe  wouldn't freak out and ruin my family.
She gets up and puts on her coat.
KAYLEIGH
Oh, here's one! Go back when I'm seven and fuck me in front of Daddy's handicam, you know, straighten me out a bit...
She tosses his wallet over her shoulder at him and leaves.
 'S DORM - DAY
 enters his familiar looking dorm and hears the familiar sounds of Thumper having sex with another naked GOTHIC CO-ED. On 's bed.

Get out. Both of you.
THUMPER
Sorry, dude. Just figured it'd be okay with you bein' sick and all.
's temper flares and he picks up a chair and SMASHES it against a wall above Thumper's head.

I'm not saying it again.
Thumper and the co-ed quickly cover themselves in the blankets and leave. Alone in the room,  looks under his bed and breathes a sigh of relief to see all of his journals are intact. He sifts through them again. He finally finds the passage he needs. Something catches the corner of 's eyes and he turns to examine it.
To the left of Thumper's Buddha statuette sits a large VOTIVE CANDLE that bears a portrait of Jesus Christ.

(humble)
Lord give me the strength and guidance I need to set things right.
As he begins reading a passage to himself, SOUNDS ECHO backward at us from another time and place. And the entire ROOM SHIMMERS around him -
SMASH CUT TO:
 MRS. HALPERN'S HOUSE - DAY - 1995
 comes to as he, Kayleigh,  and  - all thirteen - watch Mrs. Halpern carry her baby back to the mailbox across the street with intense anticipation.
 suddenly comes to life and makes himself visible, running across the street shouting.

Lady, stay back! Don't go near the mailbox!
Mrs. Halpern, startled, stares at the young kid skeptically as she absently continues toward the mailbox.

I mean it, woman! Get the hell back!
 comes running across the street to 's aid, and  shrugs and follows after him.

There's a bomb in the mailbox. Get away!
, still running, cringes to hear 's stupid confession and rolls his eyes at the situation.  positions himself between Mrs. Halpern and the mailbox, frantically waving his hand at her to stay back, because she's STILL COMING.

I'll save you lady!
 takes a running dive at Mrs. Halpern, perhaps a bit too hard, and sends her and the baby to the pavement, hurt, but no major injuries.
Seeing things are safe,  backs away from the mail --
BOOM!
The blast is deafening! 's body is hurled backwards dramatically.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S DORM - DAY - 2002
 comes to back in his dorm, the same posters are on the wall, the sheets are the same. Even the familiar sounds of Thumper having sex under the covers.

I thought I told you two to beat it.
's face falls as he hears a familiar voice, but not Thumper's.

What? Hey, sorry, man. We wake you up?
 is confused by 's presence, but smiles to himself and shakes his head "no".

No, it's cool.
(re: 's okay)
Really cool.
 yawns, brining his hand to his mouth, but there's no hand. No arm, really, either. Just two FLESHY STUMPS!
 bolts upright in bed and stares down at his amputations.
A FLOOD OF MEMORIES ASSAULT HIM:
We see countless and brief image flashes of  growing up from the age of thirteen with NO ARMS, and requiring a WHEELCHAIR.
 MULTIPLEX THEATER LOBBY - DAY - 1995
 and Kayleigh load popcorn and drinks onto 's lap as  pushes the wheelchair.
 'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY - 1995
 celebrates his 14th birthday and blows out the candles. , Kayleigh,  and  all clap.
 CHURCH - DAY - 1995
 pushes  to church.
 'S DORM - DAY - 2002
 screams as blood pours from his nose.  is out of bed at once to help him...as is KAYLEIGH! (Now beautiful and natural looking).
QUICK SERIES OF FLASHES:
 LAKE - DAY - 1999
 and Kayleigh, as teens, sit together with  at the far end of the boat.
 HIGH SCHOOL - DAY - 1999
 looks on longingly as  and Kayleigh become lovers in high school.
 WOODS - NIGHT - 1999
A campfire.  sips from a BEER CAP as  and Kayleigh make out in plain sight with 's bashful approval.
BACK TO :
 DORM HALLWAY - DAY - 2002
's in agony as Kayleigh opens a series of dorm doors and  rushes 's wheelchair through. Kayleigh carries a pair of prosthetic arms in her hands.  moans and tries to rub his temple with his stump.

Where are we going?
KAYLEIGH
We have to get you to Sunnyvale. You're having one of your famous hemorrhages.

Stop! Take me back!

Sorry, tough guy, no can do. Your mother would kill me.
 launches his body forward and spills clumsily out of the wheelchair.  must halt in order not to crush . AS  writhes about on the floor, his legs paralyzed, a CROWD GATHERS.
 focuses on , but it's hard to ignore the crowd that titters and snickers in the background.

Take me back, !
(teeth clenched)
You owe me that much.
Kayleigh turns to face the jeering crowd.
KAYLEIGH
What are you geeks looking at? Must be nice to be so goddamned perfect, huh? Fucking losers.
The crowd breaks up and leaves.
 COLLEGE QUAD - DAY
It's calm now.  and Kayleigh push 's wheelchair around the quad.  now wears prosthetic arms. Random PEOPLE call out to . He's extremely popular in this world.

'Sup, Sheila! WE missed you at the party! Don't even think I'm giving you my lab notes either! Think I like getting up for "eight thirty's"?
 pushes  past Thumper and Cricket. Their conversation stops and they stare at their feet as  gets wheeled by.  boils to be treated as if he were non-existent.

Hey, there's .
 spins around in fear. He sees , clean-cut, and handing out flyers in front of a banner that reads "Campus Crusade for Christ."  seems good-natured now, working hard and soliciting names for his list. He looks up as  rolls along and his eyes brighten to see .

I did what you said, man! We're pooling our student funds with Hillel House and we're going to have an Awareness Dance.

Oh goody, nothing like spinning my chair around to a techno mix of Hava Nagila til I puke.
 frowns and exchanges glances with , who shrugs and nods back to him.

Uh, we should be getting to class now.

Forget it. What's the point of Psych now? Tomorrow I could wake up as some dirt farmer in Bangladesh.
Another exchanged glance. Kayleigh looks at .
KAYLEIGH
Let's go for a stroll.
 allows Kayleigh to roll him away from the others. To the very spot where  once killed .
 stares at his prosthetic hand which he can "magically" will to open, close, open, close...

So 's really into this Jesus kick, huh?
Kayleigh looks at him curiously.
KAYLEIGH
You know how spiritual he's gotten ever since he saved Mrs. Halpern and Katie.

He saved Mrs. Halpern? Please, the twisted fuck.
Kayleigh, now by a bench. Stops and sits. As she casually uses her foot to turn his chair to face her, she pulls out a granola bar and hands it to him.
His prosthetic hand crushes it. It crumbles to dust. She seems more confused.
KAYLEIGH
Is something the matter?

(re: prosthetic arms)
Yeah, I think I gotta get these fixed or something.
She leans into him, gently feeding him her remaining bar.

Kayleigh? Do you ever think about "us?" I mean, wonder if it could ever have been different between the two of us?
KAYLEIGH
Sure, , why not? You were the first person I really ever cared about.

I was?
KAYLEIGH
That's why when I was little I never went to live with my mother.

I don't get it.
KAYLEIGH
(feeding another bite)
When my folks split, they gave me and  a choice who we wanted to live with. I couldn't stand my dad, but I knew if I moved to my mom's I'd never see you again.

I never knew that. So then you still sometimes think of us... together?
KAYLEIGH
It's crossed my mind from time to time.

(hopeful)
And...?
KAYLEIGH
Well a lot of things cross my mind. I've always been a fast thinker, Ev. I can play out the movie of our entire lives in under a second. Boom - we fall in love-get married-two kids, your keen analytical insight matched to my generous nature-kids grow old as do we, relatively stable relationships, matching burial plots, the whole bit. It took a lot longer to spit out than to imagine.

Then you think it might have worked out?
KAYLEIGH
Why not? But that's not how things wound up. I'm with , 's your friend. And there it ends.
She looks into his eyes and shrugs almost apologetically. Tears streak down 's face as he speaks in a pleading tone.

Would it make any difference if I told you that no one could possibly love anyone as much as I love you?
Kayleigh shakes her head sadly, then suddenly looks up.  turns to see  waving her over. She puts her hand on 's shoulder, stands and goes to .
 can't take his eyes off her.
ANGLE ON
 kissing Kayleigh. In painful slo-mo.  turns away, utterly heartbroken.
 HANDICAPPED BATHROOM - DAY
CLOSE UP
's stump turns on a BATHTUB FAUCET.
REVEAL
, fully clothes, lies in a bathtub that's filling with water. Beside the tub, the wheelchair has been tipped over.
The water rises past his mouth, to his nostrils -  makes his peace and takes a final breath.
And the water spills over the side of the tub. All  can do is watch it, still breathing easily through his nose.
A beat. Then the door opens.
 ENTERS
Immediately sizing up the situation.

You forgot to put the toaster on the edge.
 casually turns off the water, then pops open the DRAIN. The water level lowers to 's mouth.

But you, Kayleigh and  like toast. And that's really all that matters now.
 feels 's anguish and plops his ass on the wet floor by the tub. He lanes his head onto 's shoulder.
 bristles at first, but finally gives in to his hatred, ultimately resting his own head against 's. Taking the comfort offered.

I'll get you changed. Visiting hours are almost up.
 ST. VINCENT'S HOSPITAL - EVENING
 rolls  through a quiet hospital corridor.

(looking around)
What, did mom get transferred again?
 frowns, confused, then rolls  into --
 'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS
 is startled to see  hooked up to several IV's, an oxygen tank and a respirator Several oxygen hoses connect to a tracheotomy tube.
 smiles and kisses  on the cheek. She tousles his hair in return.  can hardly speak. As  begins to wheel 's chair closer to 's bedside,  utters a faint whisper.

Looking. Good. Kiddo.
 eyes her MEDICAL CLIPBOARD as he's wheeled by.

(reading)
Lung cancer?

Sorry, Mrs. T. He's been out of sorts lately.
 flinches to hear this.  stares at her, eyes wide.

Right... You started chain smoking after I blew myself up.
 suddenly seems sick with guilt.

There must be a way to fix this.

Fix?

I just need the entry about the blockbuster. Wait, shit, no arms. I never even got the chance to write it.
A flicker of recognition registers in her eyes.

Is ...different?

He's just going through some tough times.

Mom. Don't cry. I can change this.

I think I'll go check out the chapel.

You're. Acting. Like your father.

Come on, Mom. Just 'cause Dad was my age when he started going crazy doesn't mean that I'm nuts.
 is shocked.

How. Did you. Know that?

You told me that on Parents' Weekend. Remember? Wait, that wasn't me. Or you.
She uses her left hand to pinch off the air to her oxygen tube and forces herself to speak in a sick, GRAVELY manner.

Just. Like. Jason.

Don't worry. I'm gonna get you out of here.
He pushes a lever and the mechanical wheelchair rolls itself out of the room.  forces her loudest raspy scream.

Stop him. Stop him. Stop him...
 'S DORM - NIGHT
 tears through old cardboard boxes in 's closet.  watches nearby.

Are you sure you even packed it?

My mom packed for me. I think she sent everything I ever owned. So we'll see.
 watches  eagerly as he dumps tons of 's junk on the floor. Old report cards, books, toys and photo albums fall on the floor.

Is this it?
 beams when he sees  holding his old journal. AGE 7.

What do you need it for? I don't get you lately.

Duly noted. Now I'm gonna ask you for one last favor.

What?

Shhh. I need to concentrate on the blockbuster if I'm gonna destroy it.

(concerned)
Destroy it?

If I hadn't blown my arms off, Mom never woulda started smoking in the first place. Now shhhh.
, utterly baffled, sits back in silence and watches  begin reading his journal to himself for a beat.
ON 
As new sounds ECHO BACKWARD. There's a --
SHIMMER! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING 
 comes to in his childhood kitchen. He is only seven-years old. He coughs up Lucky Charms that have "magically" appeared in his mouth. On a journal before him is the recently written passage:
JOURNAL ENTRY
Today Mommy is taking me to play with Kayley and . I will mete there father and see what a real dad is like.
 is nowhere in sight.  springs to his feet and flexes his real hands triumphantly.

Yes. Now how do I destroy the blockbuster?
He rummages through the utensil drawer and pulls out a large butcher knife and grabs it. He tucks it into his sock but it won't fit. He's still debating what to do when:
 WALKS IN
And is startled by the unexpected sight of  holding a huge knife.
 sees her but remains expressionless. 's face blanches.

? What are you doing with that knife?
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S DORM - NIGHT - 2002
 comes to to find  still staring at him. Waiting for something big to happen.

Well, that didn't work...
 flips a single page of his journal and tries again. He reads to himself, then relaxes his head --
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 MILLER'S BASEMENT - DAY 
, seven again, stands in the basement dressed in his Robin Hood costume as  prepares for the sex scene.

Now in this part of the story, Robin Hood just married Maid Marian and they have to kiss and stuff like grown-ups do. Kayleigh giggles. There seems to be a new glint of intelligence in 's eyes as he adjusts to his new surroundings.

Wait! I need my belt!
 is puzzled, but watches  SKIP to the fireplace.

(overly childlike)
Loo loo, skip to my loo. Loo loo, skip to my loo.
 puts his eye back to the viewfinder as  quickly finds 's old army thermos in the bottom drawer of the dresser, opens it and shakes out the blockbuster.

Loo, loo, skip to my loo.
He tries to crack it with his own hands, but his seven-year old body is too weak.

Hey kid, don't bother with the belt.
 finally turns around and sees  banging the blockbuster on the table. Shock registers in 's eyes and he takes a step towards .

Back off, fuckbag!
 freezes on that, and  smiles at him.

Amazing. That word never fails to make an impression with you...
 takes a slow, non-threatening step toward .

Easy does it, ! Don't be a bad boy or I'll tell mommy you were naughty.

And I'll tell the Child Protective Services about your kiddie porn endeavors. One step closer and I'll shove this up your ass!
Kayleigh's mouth hangs open with utter amazement at the scene. , hiding at the top of the stairs, slowly creeps down to get a better view.
 rummages in the bureau and finds the wooden "strike anywhere" matches used at thirteen to light his cigarettes.

That's dangerous! You could blow your hands off!

Been there, done that.
, standing near the fireplace, defiantly strikes the match with this thumb and lowers the flame to the short fuse.
 charges  just as the fuse is lit!  knocks the blockbuster from 's hand and it rolls towards the other side of the room, resting peacefully against the video camera.
Kayleigh's eyes are dazzled by the sparkling fuse and she bends down to pick it up --
//
Kayleigh! NOOOOOooooo!
 MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY 
BOOM! The blast is deafening.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 SUNNYVALE - 'S ROOM - DAY - 2002
, twenty, wakes up with a bloody nose.

Oh God, Kayleigh...
 gets a new series of QUICK IMAGES and FLASHED FACES.
 FAMILY COURTROOM - DAY 
 (now seven) is institutionalized before a judge.
 SUNNYVALE INSTITUTION - DAY -1994
 (seven through twelve) GROWS UP in an institution.
 'S OFFICE - DAY -1994
 undergoes years of therapy under Redfield's care.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S ROOM - SUNNYVALE - DAY - 2002
 lies in a room, same posters from college adorn the walls. Blood flows freely now.

(sobbing uncontrollably)
Kayleigh...no! You can't die again! I won't let this happen. I won't!
 fights off the pain and looks under his bed for something.

Where are they?!
His journals are missing! He runs from the room.
 'S OFFCIE - DAY
 runs into 's office just as another patient is leaving.

Hey, . What's the big rush? We don't meet for another hour.

Where are my goddman books?

Books?

My journals! Where are they?
The doctor looks heartbroken, as if  has had a relapse.

It kills me to have to go through this again. There are no journals. There never were. It's part of this fantasy world your mind created to cope with the guilt of killing...
 looks stunned. Refusing to believe it.

Think . You've invented a disease that doesn't exist. Alternate universes with colleges, prisons, paraplegia...

But I...I need those books.

You remind me of your father. He always screamed for a photo album even though he never had one.

Photos?
's eyes roll back and he collapses lifelessly to the floor.
 SUNNYVALE LABORATORY - DAY
 lies on a platform and gets another series of CAT-scans.
 'S ROOM - NIGHT
, no longer incapacitated, stares out the window into the darkness. Alone. Trapped. Hopeless.
 'S OFFICE - DAY
Later that day,  posts the new CAT-scan slides on the light box and shudders when he sees the results.  looks on anxiously.

Jesus, no.
, biting her nails, is unable to conceal her fear.

No dances, just tell me.

(devastated)
The hemorrhaging...the neural damage is irreparable. I'm frankly surprised he still has use of his motor functions.
 begins to break down in tears.  secretly listens in from the hallway. His gaunt face looks deep in thought. He takes a breath and enters the lab, making sure not to look directly at his weeping mother.

Hey, Mom, didja remember to bring those goofy old home movies we used to make?
 wipes tears away, nodding in advance.
 'S CORRIDOR - NIGHT
 sees no one is watching him in the institution corridor as he throws his weight into the door of the doctor's office, breaking it open.
Sporadically, severe VIBRATIONS invade 's environment, threatening to distract him from his mission.
 'S OFFICE - NIGHT
 enters the office and tears the file cabinets apart, looking for something. His nose bleeds profusely and he repeatedly wipes the blood off his face with irritation.
 sees a cardboard marked TREBORN, E. Grabs it and hides under the doctor's desk.
 'S CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS FLASHLIGHT BEAMS stab through the darkened corridor hunting for him. An ALARM SOUNDS. GUARDS are shouting.
 'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
, under the doctor's desk, grabs some paper and begins writing in shorthand.

If anyone finds this, then I guess my plan didn't work and I'm already dead.
Again, the world flutters as if it were attached to a paint-shaker. He takes a deep breath.

But I I can just go back to the beginning of all this, I might be able to save her.
Fatigue overwhelms him, but he continues writing...
 'S CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS
 catches up with the rest of the guards.

He's not in his room. Search the grounds.
 'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS
The cardboard box is overturned.  finishes threading a SUPER-8 film projector and turns it on. Careful not to let any light spill against the wall,  projects it at the underside of the desk.
We see familiar home movie footage from his childhood: , 5, has a birthday party. Kayleigh is there.
ANGLE ON 'S EYES
Getting lost in the memory.
CHAOTIC NOISES of CHILDREN'S PARTY bleed into 's reality. The world SHUDDERS UNCONTROLLABLY.
SMASH CUT TO:
 'S BACKYARD - DAY - 1987
, 5, comes to at a birthday party. He's unexpectedly gently prodded forward by .

Go on, . Introduce yourself.
 slowly approaches Kayleigh, only five. She smiles bashfully at him. An old memory comes back to him.
KAYLEIGH (V.O.)
When my folks split, they gave me and  a choice who we wanted to live with. I couldn't stand my dad, but I knew if I lived with my mom, I'd never see you again...
 slowly looks around the yard, taking in the reality of this distant memory. He even inhales the aroma of the place. Savoring the moment. He locks eyes with Kayleigh.
 (O.S.)
He's not usually this shy.
It's time.  leans over to Kayleigh as if he's about to kiss her. Then whispers in her ear:

I hate you. If you ever come near me again, I'll kill you and your whole family.
Kayleigh reacts predictably. Bursting into tears and runs into Kayleigh's mother's arms.
KAYLEIGH'S MOTHER What did you say to her? What happened?!
 ignores them. He can't take his eyes off Kayleigh.

Goodbye.
His eyes well up.
FLASH! SMASH CUT TO:
 'S DORM - DAY - 2002
 wakes up with a bloody nose. He grabs a pillow and covers his head with it as a flood of memories seizes him.
 (looking fit) grabs a towel from atop an award-winning flatworms project and hands it to .
 (O.S.)
You alright? Should I call the doctor?
 groans and shakes his head "no". He rides out the pain like a seasoned pro. When it finally subsides, he lowers the pillow and smiles feebly.

I'll think I'll be alright this time.
(a new hope)
I really do.
 nods, still concerned.
 COLLEGE - INCINERATOR ROOM - LATER
 opens the door to a concrete room with a large furnace. He and  carry cardboard boxes.

You sure about this?
 nods. They silently dump tons of journals into the fire.  steps outside and returns with a box of home movies, photo albums, old report cards, etc. In they go.
CLOSE ON
Burning journals.
DISSOLVE TO:
 CITY STREET - DAY - 2010
, a suit now, walks down a city street cradling a cell phone to his ear.
TITLE CARD: Years Later

(into phone)
Yeah, Ma. I'm running a little late for lunch. One of my patients had a breakdown. Anyway, order some soup in the meantime. See ya soon.
As he clicks off, an attractive woman wearing a power suit approaches from the other direction.  has to look closely, but it's Kayleigh. A mature woman, now.
He stumbles slightly, caught off guard. As she passes, her eyes linger on his a little longer than necessary, but there's no recognition.  watches her continue past him and down the sidewalk.
After a hesitant beat, he takes a breath, turns around and follows her.
FADE TO BLACK.
Roll credits...
