Brad Ebenhoeh
UMID#: 40246904
AMCULT301
First Paper

¡°Illuminations; The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction¡±

Literary Review
¡¡¡¡¡¡¡°When Marx undertook his critique of the capitalistic mode of production, this mode was in its infancy.¡± Thus begins our first reading assignment. We had to find a primary source from one of the readings for class and perform a literary review on it. Also, I thought this was the most fascinating read because it has pro-Fascist and pro-Marxist  leanings but it had to be written during the time of the 1930s. To be forewarned, as the editor of ¡®Illuminations¡¯ pointed out, this book was originally sold in Nazi Germany in the 1930s under a pseudonym for the author. 
¡¡¡¡¡¡¡°In this way black critics identified in the moving pictures many of the qualities that Walter Benjamin attributed to art in the age of mechanical reproduction: it was relatively accessible and infinitely replicable, and possessed an exhibition value that had come to replace the ¡®aura,¡¯ or uniqueness, attached to less democratic forms of art.¡± This is the quote from the Oscar Micheaux¡¯s week¡¯s readings that took me down this long reading path and boy was I so glad I got the chance to read it. Not only did it have pro-Fascist and pro-Marxist leanings, but it also had a pivotal role in our week¡¯s readings. 
¡¡¡¡¡¡One would classify this as a pro-Fascist and a pro-Marxist reading. On top of that, the fact that the book was published in Nazi Germany leads one to believe in this idea. The central statement is that everything induces war. Walter Benjamin, the author, states that war is beautiful. In this article, he asserts that he expects war to fuel the artistic side of a person. 
¡¡¡¡¡¡¡°Illuminations; The Work of Art in the Age of Mechanical Reproduction¡± does not fit in with our class discussion. We have been talking about ¡°Race and the Media¡± and this article contradicts everything. The author briefly mentions race. With a few hints at ethnic groups, we are led to believe that the diverse races are the same as our own. In this article, one is lead to believe that Marxism or Fascism is the only method to a perfect government. Apart from a few brief mentions of the different races, there was very little application in what I took from this class.
	I know of Walter Benjamin¡¯s affiliation with the Fascist and Marxist parties. While I think they have some fabulous applications, I do not think they apply to this class. This article was fascinating to read but there was very little correlation between what we talked about in class and the author¡¯s writing of this article. I learned about Marxism and Fascism by reading this article and my eyes were opened by the type of different governments in this paper. I was under the impression that Fascism and Marxism were utilitarian forms of government, where one prevailing race ruled them all. 
	Growing up in a neighborhood with like minded people might have influenced Walter¡¯s viewpoint. In linguistics, we have studied the various speech communities. They have had an incredible effect on people who have been born in a similar situation. Like speech communities, the author is forced to stay in his own circle. I think that these speech communities are an excellent example of proving the author¡¯s race, generation, class. Being around such male figureheads is also another reason why gender may have influenced him a little bit. In this article, they mentioned Dadaism several times. I felt that the ¡°Dadaism¡± was particularly applicable to this question. When this article was written, in the 1930s, was a great contributor to the author¡¯s generation.
¡¡¡¡¡¡This source does provide a perspective that is accounted for in the reading. I will refer back to the second opening quote, but I believe that it does because the author of the book was mentioned in the reading.  
¡¡¡¡¡¡Yes, this reading does provide some information that is overlooked by the scholarly reading. I think that this is a compelling argument because I never would have looked at it being from Nazi Germany.
¡¡¡¡¡¡Yes, this source did change my understanding of this topic because I never would have known the perspective from a Fascist or Marxist person. 
¡¡¡¡¡¡I am glad you took me down this path of reading ¡°Illuminations¡± because other than that I would have just brushed it off. This article was respected during its time and I would say it still is today. 
















Word count: 729
