Brad Ebenhoeh
Linguistics 403
10/12/17
	I have three potential ideas for the first longer paper in Linguistics 403. I am particularly interested in the last paper topic. It is especially compelling because I have always been fascinated with studying World War Two era material.
	One paper idea is to explore the differences between my home speech community and the Ann Arbor speech community. However, I feel that we have worked on this numerous times in class and on my first few papers. I would not enjoy having to write another paper on this topic.
	Another idea was to trace my fam.  Aily heritage outside of Michigan in the United States. I only know that both of my parents¡¯ families came to America a long time ago. I believe that I¡¯m related to Daniel Boone, who fought in the Battle of the Alamo. There are many different family members who have lived around the country, and it would be interesting to examine the relationships between our varying English dialects.
	Language and social advancement are two closely related phenomena. I would like to examine dialects of English and consider the role they play in today¡¯s society. I could investigate two models of English. German, for example, has brought words like pumpernickel, wiener-schnitzel, frankfurter, and hamburger. The French language, as another example, has introduced words such as bourgeois, chauffeur, deja-vu, and cologne. Both German and French are a part of my heritage. I could also explore the fact that most of the German words that have been introduced in society seem to have to do with food, while French words appear to have mostly to do with occupation, workplace settings, and activities. (need to investigate this supposition a little more before putting it in my potential paper) 
	As a continuation of my fascination with World War Two, I have always been intrigued by the renaming of things that are German or French. Furthermore, I am interested in the terms that have been added to the layman¡¯s English language as a result of war and the military industrial complex. A few of the German and French words that were changed include hamburger, frankfurter, sauerkraut, French fries, and French toast. Some terms that were introduced as a result of war and the military industrial complex were Jeep, trench coat, victory gardens, and Rosie the Riveter.
	These three topics are my potential topics for my first long essay. I think I have settled on the last topic for my idea for my essay, the one dealing with the military industrial complex. I am eager to find out your thoughts. 
	
